Vol. 90, No. 84

 

 Title 3- Executive Order 14286 of April 28, 2025

 The President Enforcing Commonsense Rules of the Road for America's
 Truck Drivers

 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
 laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:
 Section 1. Purpose. America's truck drivers are essential to the strength
 of our economy, the security of our Nation, and the livelihoods of the
 American people. Every day, truckers perform the demanding and dangerous
 work of transporting the Nation's goods to businesses, customers, and communities safely, reliably, and efficiently.
 Proficiency in English, which I designated as our official national language
 in Executive Order 14224 of March 1, 2025 (Designating English as the
 Official Language of the United States), should be a non-negotiable safety
 requirement for professional drivers. They should be able to read and understand traffic signs, communicate with traffic safety, border patrol, agricultural
 checkpoints, and cargo weight-limit station officers. Drivers need to provide
 feedback to their employers and customers and receive related directions
 in English. This is common sense.
 That is why Federal law requires that, to operate a commercial vehicle,
 a driver must ''read and speak the English language sufficiently to converse
 with the general public, to understand highway traffic signs and signals
 in the English language, to respond to official inquiries, and to make entries
 on reports and records.'' Yet this requirement has not been enforced in
 years, and America's roadways have become less safe.
 My Administration will enforce the law to protect the safety of American
 truckers, drivers, passengers, and others, including by upholding the safety
 enforcement regulations that ensure that anyone behind the wheel of a
 commercial vehicle is properly qualified and proficient in our national language, English.
 Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of my Administration to support America's
 truckers and safeguard our roadways by enforcing the commonsense Englishlanguage requirement for commercial motor vehicle drivers and removing
 needless regulatory burdens that undermine the working conditions of America's truck drivers. This order will help ensure a safe, secure, and efficient
 motor carrier industry.
 Sec. 3. Upholding English Proficiency Requirements for Commercial Motor
 Vehicle Operators. (a) The Secretary of Transportation, acting through the
 Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA),
 shall, within 60 days of the date of this order, rescind the guidance document
 titled, ''English Language Proficiency Testing and Enforcement Policy MC-
 ECE-2016-006,'' issued on June 15, 2016, and issue new guidance to FMCSA
 and enforcement personnel outlining revised inspection procedures necessary
 to ensure compliance with the requirements of 49 CFR 391.11(b)(2).
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC

 (b) In carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of Transportation, through the Administrator of the FMCSA, shall take all necessary
 and appropriate actions, consistent with applicable law, to ensure that the
 out-of-service criteria are revised such that a violation of the English language
 proficiency requirement results in the driver being placed out-of-service,
 including by working with the relevant entities responsible for establishing
 the out-of-service criteria.

 Sec. 4. Strengthening Commercial Driver's License Security for Safer Commercial Motor Vehicle Operations. The Secretary of Transportation, through
 the Administrator of the FMCSA, shall:
 (a) review non-domiciled commercial driver's licenses (CDLs) issued by
 relevant State agencies to identify any unusual patterns or numbers or other
 irregularities with respect to non-domiciled CDL issuance; and
 (b) evaluate and take appropriate actions to improve the effectiveness
 of current protocols for verifying the authenticity and validity of both domestic and international commercial driving credentials.
 Sec. 5. Supporting America's Truck Drivers. Within 60 days of the date
 of this order, the Secretary of Transportation shall identify and begin carrying
 out additional administrative, regulatory, or enforcement actions to improve
 the working conditions of America's truck drivers.
 Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
 to impair or otherwise affect:
 (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
 or the head thereof; or
 (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
 relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
 (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
 subject to the availability of appropriations.
 (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
 substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
 against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
 employees, or agents, or any other person.
 (d) The Department of Transportation shall provide funding for this order's
 publication in the Federal Register.

 THE WHITE HOUSE,
 April 28, 2025.

khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC

 Trump.EPS</GPH>