                                                                         Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 102 / Thursday, May 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       22601

                                                                                                        Presidential Documents



                                                                                                        Executive Order 14303 of May 23, 2025

                                                                                                        Restoring Gold Standard Science

                                                                                                        By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
                                                                                                        laws of the United States of America, including section 7301 of title 5,
                                                                                                        United States Code, it is hereby ordered:
                                                                                                        Section 1. Policy and Purpose. Over the last 5 years, confidence that scientists
                                                                                                        act in the best interests of the public has fallen significantly. A majority
                                                                                                        of researchers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics believe
                                                                                                        science is facing a reproducibility crisis. The falsification of data by leading
                                                                                                        researchers has led to high-profile retractions of federally funded research.
                                                                                                        Unfortunately, the Federal Government has contributed to this loss of trust.
                                                                                                        In several notable cases, executive departments and agencies (agencies) have
                                                                                                        used or promoted scientific information in a highly misleading manner.
                                                                                                        For example, under the prior Administration, the Centers for Disease Control
                                                                                                        and Prevention issued COVID–19 guidance on reopening schools that incor-
                                                                                                        porated edits by the American Federation of Teachers and was understood
                                                                                                        to discourage in-person learning. This guidance’s restrictive and burdensome
                                                                                                        reopening conditions led many schools to remain at least partially closed,
                                                                                                        resulting in substantial negative effects on educational outcomes—even
                                                                                                        though the best available scientific evidence showed that children were
                                                                                                        unlikely to transmit or suffer serious illness or death from the virus, and
                                                                                                        that opening schools with reasonable mitigation measures would have only
                                                                                                        minor effects on transmission.
                                                                                                        The National Marine Fisheries Service justified a biological opinion by adopt-
                                                                                                        ing an admitted ‘‘worst-case scenario’’ projection of the North Atlantic right
                                                                                                        whale population that it believed was ‘‘very likely’’ wrong. The agency’s
                                                                                                        proposed actions could have destroyed the historic Maine lobster fishery.
                                                                                                        The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals subsequently overturned that opinion
                                                                                                        because the agency’s decision to seek out the worst-case scenario skewed
                                                                                                        its approach to the evidence.
                                                                                                        Similarly, agencies have used Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP)
                                                                                                        scenario 8.5 to assess the potential effects of climate change in a ‘‘higher’’
                                                                                                        warming scenario. RCP 8.5 is a worst-case scenario based on highly unlikely
                                                                                                        assumptions like end-of-century coal use exceeding estimates of recoverable
                                                                                                        coal reserves. Scientists have warned that presenting RCP 8.5 as a likely
                                                                                                        outcome is misleading.
                                                                                                        Actions taken by the prior Administration further politicized science, for
                                                                                                        example, by encouraging agencies to incorporate diversity, equity, and inclu-
                                                                                                        sion considerations into all aspects of science planning, execution, and
                                                                                                        communication. Scientific integrity in the production and use of science
                                                                                                        by the Federal Government is critical to maintaining the trust of the American
                                                                                                        people and ensuring confidence in government decisions informed by
                                                                                                        science.
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E4




                                                                                                        My Administration is committed to restoring a gold standard for science
                                                                                                        to ensure that federally funded research is transparent, rigorous, and
                                                                                                        impactful, and that Federal decisions are informed by the most credible,
                                                                                                        reliable, and impartial scientific evidence available. We must restore the
                                                                                                        American people’s faith in the scientific enterprise and institutions that
                                                                                                        create and apply scientific knowledge in service of the public good. Repro-
                                                                                                        ducibility, rigor, and unbiased peer review must be maintained. This order
                                                                                                        restores the scientific integrity policies of my first Administration and ensures


                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:52 May 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00001   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29MYE4.SGM   29MYE4


                                                     22602               Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 102 / Thursday, May 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                        that agencies practice data transparency, acknowledge relevant scientific
                                                                                                        uncertainties, are transparent about the assumptions and likelihood of sce-
                                                                                                        narios used, approach scientific findings objectively, and communicate sci-
                                                                                                        entific data accurately. Agency use of Gold Standard Science, as set forth
                                                                                                        in this order, will spur innovation, translate discovery to success, and ensure
                                                                                                        continued American strength and global leadership in technology.
                                                                                                        Sec. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this order:
                                                                                                          (a) ‘‘Employee’’ has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
                                                                                                           (b) ‘‘Scientific information’’ means factual inputs, data, models, analyses,
                                                                                                        technical information, or scientific assessments related to such disciplines
                                                                                                        as the behavioral and social sciences, public health and medical sciences,
                                                                                                        life and earth sciences, engineering, physical sciences, or probability and
                                                                                                        statistics. This includes any communication or representation of knowledge
                                                                                                        such as facts or data, in any medium or form, including textual, numerical,
                                                                                                        graphic, cartographic, narrative, or audiovisual forms.
                                                                                                          (c) ‘‘Scientific misconduct’’ means fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism
                                                                                                        in proposing, performing, reviewing, or reporting the results of scientific
                                                                                                        research, but does not include honest error or differences of opinion. For
                                                                                                        the purposes of this definition:
                                                                                                          (i) ‘‘fabrication’’ is making up data or results and recording or reporting
                                                                                                          them;
                                                                                                           (ii) ‘‘falsification’’ is manipulating research materials, equipment, or proc-
                                                                                                           esses, or changing or omitting data or results such that the research is
                                                                                                           not accurately represented in the research record; and
                                                                                                          (iii) ‘‘plagiarism’’ is the appropriation of another person’s ideas, processes,
                                                                                                          results, or words without giving appropriate credit.
                                                                                                          (d) ‘‘Senior appointee’’ means an individual appointed by the President
                                                                                                        (or an individual performing the functions and duties of an individual
                                                                                                        appointed by the President) or a non-career member of the Senior Executive
                                                                                                        Service.
                                                                                                           (e) ‘‘Weight of scientific evidence’’ means an approach to scientific evalua-
                                                                                                        tion in which each piece of relevant information is considered based on
                                                                                                        its quality and relevance, and then transparently integrated with other rel-
                                                                                                        evant information to inform the scientific evaluation prior to making a
                                                                                                        judgment about the scientific evaluation. Quality and relevance determina-
                                                                                                        tions, at a minimum, should include consideration of study design, fitness
                                                                                                        for purpose, replicability, peer review, and transparency and reliability of
                                                                                                        data.
                                                                                                        Sec. 3. Restoring Gold Standard Science. (a) Within 30 days of the date
                                                                                                        of this order, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
                                                                                                        (OSTP Director) shall, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies,
                                                                                                        issue guidance for agencies on implementation of ‘‘Gold Standard Science’’
                                                                                                        in the conduct and management of their respective scientific activities. For
                                                                                                        the purposes of this order, Gold Standard Science means science conducted
                                                                                                        in a manner that is:
                                                                                                           (i) reproducible;
                                                                                                           (ii) transparent;
                                                                                                           (iii) communicative of error and uncertainty;
                                                                                                           (iv) collaborative and interdisciplinary;
                                                                                                           (v) skeptical of its findings and assumptions;
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E4




                                                                                                           (vi) structured for falsifiability of hypotheses;
                                                                                                           (vii) subject to unbiased peer review;
                                                                                                           (viii) accepting of negative results as positive outcomes; and
                                                                                                          (ix) without conflicts of interest.
                                                                                                          (b) Upon publication of the guidance prescribed in subsection (a), each
                                                                                                        agency head, as necessary and appropriate and in consultation with the


                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:52 May 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00002   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29MYE4.SGM   29MYE4


                                                                         Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 102 / Thursday, May 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       22603

                                                                                                        Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Director) and the
                                                                                                        OSTP Director, shall promptly update applicable agency policies governing
                                                                                                        the production and use of scientific information, including scientific integrity
                                                                                                        policies, to implement the OSTP Director’s guidance on Gold Standard
                                                                                                        Science and ensure that agency scientific activities are conducted in accord-
                                                                                                        ance with this order.
                                                                                                          (c) Each agency head shall, to the extent practicable, incorporate the
                                                                                                        OSTP Director’s guidance on Gold Standard Science and the requirements
                                                                                                        of this order into the processes by which their agency conducts, manages,
                                                                                                        interprets, communicates, and uses scientific or technological information
                                                                                                        prior to the finalization of the updated policies under this section.
                                                                                                           (d) Within 60 days of the publication of the guidance prescribed in section
                                                                                                        3(a), agency heads shall report to the OSTP Director on the actions taken
                                                                                                        to implement Gold Standard Science at their agency.
                                                                                                        Sec. 4. Improving the Use, Interpretation, and Communication of Scientific
                                                                                                        Data. No later than 30 days after the date of this order, agency heads
                                                                                                        and employees shall adhere to the following rules governing the use, interpre-
                                                                                                        tation, and communication of scientific data, unless otherwise provided
                                                                                                        by law:
                                                                                                           (a) Employees shall not engage in scientific misconduct nor knowingly
                                                                                                        rely on information resulting from scientific misconduct.
                                                                                                          (b) Except as prohibited by law, and consistent with relevant policies
                                                                                                        that protect national security or sensitive personal or confidential business
                                                                                                        information, agency heads shall in a timely manner and, to the extent
                                                                                                        practicable and within the agency’s authority:
                                                                                                          (i) subject to paragraph (ii), make publicly available the following informa-
                                                                                                          tion within the agency’s possession:
                                                                                                             (A) the data, analyses, and conclusions associated with scientific and
                                                                                                           technological information produced or used by the agency that the agency
                                                                                                           reasonably assesses will have a clear and substantial effect on important
                                                                                                           public policies or important private sector decisions (influential scientific
                                                                                                           information), including data cited in peer-reviewed literature; and
                                                                                                             (B) the models and analyses (including, as applicable, the source code
                                                                                                           for such models) the agency used to generate such influential scientific
                                                                                                           information. Employees may not invoke exemption 5 to the Freedom
                                                                                                           of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(5)) to prevent disclosure of such models
                                                                                                           unless authorized in writing to do so by the agency head following prior
                                                                                                           notice to the OSTP Director.
                                                                                                          (ii) risk models used to guide agency enforcement actions or select enforce-
                                                                                                          ment targets are not information that must be disclosed under this sub-
                                                                                                          section.
                                                                                                          (c) When using scientific information in agency decision-making, employ-
                                                                                                        ees shall transparently acknowledge and document uncertainties, including
                                                                                                        how uncertainty propagates throughout any models used in the analysis.
                                                                                                          (d) Where employees produce or use scientific information to inform
                                                                                                        policy or legal determinations they must use science that comports with
                                                                                                        the legal standards applicable to those determinations, including when agen-
                                                                                                        cies evaluate the realistic or reasonably foreseeable effects of an action.
                                                                                                          (e) Employees shall be transparent about the likelihood of the assumptions
                                                                                                        and scenarios used. Highly unlikely and overly precautionary assumptions
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E4




                                                                                                        and scenarios should only be relied upon in agency decision-making where
                                                                                                        required by law or otherwise pertinent to the agency’s action.
                                                                                                           (f) When scientific or technological information is used to inform agency
                                                                                                        evaluations and subsequent decision-making, employees shall apply a
                                                                                                        ‘‘weight of scientific evidence’’ approach.
                                                                                                          (g) Employees’ communication of scientific information shall be consistent
                                                                                                        with the results of the relevant analysis and evaluation and, to the extent


                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:52 May 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29MYE4.SGM   29MYE4


                                                     22604               Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 102 / Thursday, May 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                        that uncertainty is present, the degree of uncertainty should be commu-
                                                                                                        nicated. Communications involving a scientific model or information derived
                                                                                                        from a scientific model should include reference to any material assumptions
                                                                                                        that inform the model’s outputs.
                                                                                                          (h) Once the guidance on Gold Standard Science is established and promul-
                                                                                                        gated pursuant to section 3 of this order, it shall, among other things,
                                                                                                        form the basis for employees’ evaluation of all scientific and technological
                                                                                                        information called for in this order except where otherwise required by
                                                                                                        law.
                                                                                                        Sec. 5. Interim Scientific Integrity Policies. (a) Until the issuance of updated
                                                                                                        agency scientific integrity policies pursuant to section 3 of this order, and
                                                                                                        except where required by law:
                                                                                                          (i) scientific integrity policies in each agency shall be governed by the
                                                                                                          scientific integrity policies that existed within the executive branch on
                                                                                                          January 19, 2021, except that in the event of a conflict between such
                                                                                                          policies and the policies and requirements of this order, the policies
                                                                                                          and requirements of this order control; and
                                                                                                           (ii) agency heads shall take all necessary actions to reevaluate and, where
                                                                                                           necessary, revise or rescind scientific integrity policies or procedures,
                                                                                                           or amendments to such policies or procedures, issued between January
                                                                                                           20, 2021, and January 20, 2025.
                                                                                                          (iii) each agency head shall promptly revoke any organizational or oper-
                                                                                                          ational changes, designations, or documents that were issued or enacted
                                                                                                          pursuant to the Presidential Memorandum of January 27, 2021 (Restoring
                                                                                                          Trust in Government Through Scientific Integrity and Evidence-Based Pol-
                                                                                                          icymaking), which was revoked pursuant to Executive Order 14154 and
                                                                                                          shall conduct applicable agency operations in the manner and revert appli-
                                                                                                          cable agency organization to the same form as would have existed in
                                                                                                          the absence of such changes, designations, or documents.
                                                                                                          (b) In updating applicable scientific integrity policies pursuant to section
                                                                                                        3 of this order, agencies should ensure they:
                                                                                                          (i) encourage the open exchange of ideas;
                                                                                                           (ii) provide for consideration of different or dissenting viewpoints; and
                                                                                                           (iii) protect employees from efforts to prevent or deter consideration of
                                                                                                           alternative scientific opinions.
                                                                                                           (c) Agencies, unless prohibited by law, shall review agency actions taken
                                                                                                        between January 20, 2021, and January 20, 2025, including regulations,
                                                                                                        guidance documents, policies, and scientific evaluations and take all appro-
                                                                                                        priate steps, consistent with law, to ensure alignment with the policies
                                                                                                        and requirements of this order.
                                                                                                        Sec. 6. Scope and Applicability. (a) The policies and rules set forth in
                                                                                                        this order apply to all employees involved in the generation, use, interpreta-
                                                                                                        tion, or communication of scientific information, regardless of job classifica-
                                                                                                        tion, and to all agency decision-making, except where precluded by law.
                                                                                                           (b) Agency heads and employees shall, to the extent practicable and con-
                                                                                                        sistent with applicable law, require agency contractors to adhere to these
                                                                                                        policies and rules as though they were agency employees.
                                                                                                          (c) The policies and rules set forth in this order govern the use of science
                                                                                                        that informs agency decisions but they are not applicable to non-scientific
                                                                                                        aspects of agency decision-making.
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E4




                                                                                                        Sec. 7. Enforcement and Oversight. (a) Each agency head shall establish
                                                                                                        internal processes to evaluate alleged violations of the requirements of this
                                                                                                        order and other applicable agency policies governing the generation, use,
                                                                                                        interpretation, and communication of scientific information. Such processes
                                                                                                        shall be the responsibility, and administered under the direction, of a senior
                                                                                                        appointee designated by the agency head and shall provide for taking appro-
                                                                                                        priate measures to correct scientific information in response to violations,
                                                                                                        consistent with the requirements and procedures of section 515 of the statute


                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:52 May 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00004   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29MYE4.SGM   29MYE4


                                                                         Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 102 / Thursday, May 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       22605

                                                                                                        commonly known as the Information Quality Act, Public Law 106–554,
                                                                                                        appendix C (114 Stat. 2763A–153). The designated senior appointee may
                                                                                                        also forward potential violations to the relevant human resources officials
                                                                                                        for discipline to the extent the potential violation also violates applicable
                                                                                                        agency policies and procedures. The designated senior appointee may consult
                                                                                                        appropriate officials with scientific expertise when establishing such proc-
                                                                                                        esses.
                                                                                                           (b) The processes created under this section are, unless otherwise required
                                                                                                        by applicable law, the sole and exclusive means of evaluating and, as applica-
                                                                                                        ble, addressing alleged violations of this order and other agency policies
                                                                                                        governing the use, interpretation, and communication of scientific informa-
                                                                                                        tion.
                                                                                                        Sec. 8. Waivers. (a) An agency head may request in writing that the OMB
                                                                                                        Director, in consultation with the OSTP Director, waive any of the require-
                                                                                                        ments of this order for good cause shown. Such request must explain how
                                                                                                        the requested waiver is consistent with the policies and purposes of this
                                                                                                        order.
                                                                                                           (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this order, the policies and
                                                                                                        requirements of this order shall apply to agency actions that pertain to
                                                                                                        foreign or military affairs, or to a national security or homeland security
                                                                                                        function of the United States, only to the extent that the applicable agency
                                                                                                        head, in his or her sole and exclusive discretion, determines they should
                                                                                                        apply.
                                                                                                        Sec. 9. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                        to impair or otherwise affect:
                                                                                                           (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
                                                                                                           or the head thereof; or
                                                                                                          (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
                                                                                                          relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
                                                                                                          (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
                                                                                                        subject to the availability of appropriations.
                                                                                                          (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
                                                                                                        substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
                                                                                                        against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
                                                                                                        employees, or agents, or any other person.
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E4




                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:52 May 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00005   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29MYE4.SGM   29MYE4


                                                     22606               Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 102 / Thursday, May 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                          (d) The Office of Management and Budget shall provide funding for publi-
                                                                                                        cation of this order in the Federal Register.




                                                                                                        THE WHITE HOUSE,
                                                                                                        May 23, 2025.


                                                     [FR Doc. 2025–09802
                                                     Filed 5–28–25; 8:45 am]
                                                     Billing code 3110–01–P
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E4




                                                                                                                                                                                     Trump.EPS</GPH>




                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:52 May 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00006   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29MYE4.SGM   29MYE4
