                                                                     Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       17529

                                                                                                    Presidential Documents



                                                                                                    Executive Order 14279 of April 23, 2025

                                                                                                    Reforming Accreditation To Strengthen Higher Education

                                                                                                    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
                                                                                                    laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:
                                                                                                    Section 1. Purpose. A group of higher education accreditors are the gate-
                                                                                                    keepers that decide which colleges and universities American students can
                                                                                                    spend the more than $100 billion in Federal student loans and Pell Grants
                                                                                                    dispersed each year. The accreditors’ job is to determine which institutions
                                                                                                    provide a quality education—and therefore merit accreditation. Unfortu-
                                                                                                    nately, accreditors have not only failed in this responsibility to students,
                                                                                                    families, and American taxpayers, but they have also abused their enormous
                                                                                                    authority.
                                                                                                    Accreditors routinely approve institutions that are low-quality by the most
                                                                                                    important measures. The national six-year undergraduate graduation rate
                                                                                                    was an alarming 64 percent in 2020. Further, many accredited institutions
                                                                                                    offer undergraduate and graduate programs with a negative return on invest-
                                                                                                    ment—almost 25 percent of bachelor’s degrees and more than 40 percent
                                                                                                    of master’s degrees—which may leave students financially worse off and
                                                                                                    in enormous debt by charging them exorbitant sums for a degree with
                                                                                                    very modest earnings potential.
                                                                                                    Notwithstanding this slide in graduation rates and graduates’ performance
                                                                                                    in the labor market, the spike in debt obligations in relation to expected
                                                                                                    earnings, and repayment rates on student loans, accreditors have remained
                                                                                                    improperly focused on compelling adoption of discriminatory ideology, rather
                                                                                                    than on student outcomes. Some accreditors make the adoption of unlawfully
                                                                                                    discriminatory practices a formal standard of accreditation, and therefore
                                                                                                    a condition of accessing Federal aid, through ‘‘diversity, equity, and inclu-
                                                                                                    sion’’ or ‘‘DEI’’-based standards of accreditation that require institutions
                                                                                                    to ‘‘share results on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in the context
                                                                                                    of their mission by considering . . . demographics . . . and resource alloca-
                                                                                                    tion.’’ Accreditors have also abused their governance standards to intrude
                                                                                                    on State and local authority.
                                                                                                    The American Bar Association’s Council of the Section of Legal Education
                                                                                                    and Admissions to the Bar (Council), which is the sole federally recognized
                                                                                                    accreditor for Juris Doctor programs, has required law schools to ‘‘dem-
                                                                                                    onstrate by concrete action a commitment to diversity and inclusion’’ includ-
                                                                                                    ing by ‘‘commit[ting] to having a student body [and faculty] that is diverse
                                                                                                    with respect to gender, race, and ethnicity.’’ As the Attorney General has
                                                                                                    concluded and informed the Council, the discriminatory requirement bla-
                                                                                                    tantly violates the Supreme Court’s decision in Students for Fair Admissions,
                                                                                                    Inc. v. President and Fellows of Harvard College, 600 U.S. 181 (2023).
                                                                                                    Though the Council subsequently suspended its enforcement while it con-
                                                                                                    siders proposed revisions, this standard and similar unlawful mandates must
                                                                                                    be permanently eradicated.
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC6




                                                                                                    The Liaison Committee on Medical Education, which is the only federally
                                                                                                    recognized body that accredits Doctor of Medicine degree programs, requires
                                                                                                    that an institution ‘‘engage[ ] in ongoing, systematic, and focused recruitment
                                                                                                    and retention activities, to achieve mission-appropriate diversity outcomes
                                                                                                    among its students.’’ The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Edu-
                                                                                                    cation, which is the sole accreditor for both allopathic and osteopathic
                                                                                                    medical residency and fellowship programs, similarly ‘‘expect[s]’’ institutions


                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:45 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00001   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE2.SGM   28APE2


                                                17530                Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                    to focus on implementing ‘‘policies and procedures related to recruitment
                                                                                                    and retention of individuals underrepresented in medicine,’’ including ‘‘racial
                                                                                                    and ethnic minority individuals.’’ The standards for training tomorrow’s
                                                                                                    doctors should focus solely on providing the highest quality care, and cer-
                                                                                                    tainly not on requiring unlawful discrimination.
                                                                                                    American students and taxpayers deserve better, and my Administration
                                                                                                    will reform our dysfunctional accreditation system so that colleges and
                                                                                                    universities focus on delivering high-quality academic programs at a reason-
                                                                                                    able price. Federal recognition will not be provided to accreditors engaging
                                                                                                    in unlawful discrimination in violation of Federal law.
                                                                                                    Sec. 2. Holding Accreditors Accountable for Unlawful Actions. (a) The Sec-
                                                                                                    retary of Education shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
                                                                                                    law, hold accountable, including through denial, monitoring, suspension,
                                                                                                    or termination of accreditation recognition, accreditors who fail to meet
                                                                                                    the applicable recognition criteria or otherwise violate Federal law, including
                                                                                                    by requiring institutions seeking accreditation to engage in unlawful discrimi-
                                                                                                    nation in accreditation-related activity under the guise of ‘‘diversity, equity,
                                                                                                    and inclusion’’ initiatives.
                                                                                                       (b) The Attorney General and the Secretary of Education shall, as appro-
                                                                                                    priate and consistent with applicable law, investigate and take appropriate
                                                                                                    action to terminate unlawful discrimination by American law schools that
                                                                                                    is advanced by the Council, including unlawful ‘‘diversity, equity, and inclu-
                                                                                                    sion’’ requirements under the guise of accreditation standards. The Secretary
                                                                                                    of Education shall also assess whether to suspend or terminate the Council’s
                                                                                                    status as an accrediting agency under Federal law.
                                                                                                      (c) The Attorney General and the Secretary of Education, in consultation
                                                                                                    with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall investigate and
                                                                                                    take appropriate action to terminate unlawful discrimination by American
                                                                                                    medical schools or graduate medical education entities that is advanced
                                                                                                    by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education or the Accreditation Council
                                                                                                    for Graduate Medical Education or other accreditors of graduate medical
                                                                                                    education, including unlawful ‘‘diversity, equity, and inclusion’’ require-
                                                                                                    ments under the guise of accreditation standards. The Secretary of Education
                                                                                                    shall also assess whether to suspend or terminate the Committee’s or the
                                                                                                    Accreditation Council’s status as an accrediting agency under Federal law
                                                                                                    or take other appropriate action to ensure lawful conduct by medical schools,
                                                                                                    graduate medical education programs, and other entities that receive Federal
                                                                                                    funding for medical education.
                                                                                                    Sec. 3. New Principles of Student-Oriented Accreditation. (a) To realign
                                                                                                    accreditation with high-quality, valuable education for students, the Secretary
                                                                                                    of Education shall, consistent with applicable law, take appropriate steps
                                                                                                    to ensure that:
                                                                                                      (i) accreditation requires higher education institutions to provide high-
                                                                                                      quality, high-value academic programs free from unlawful discrimination
                                                                                                      or other violations of Federal law;
                                                                                                       (ii) barriers are reduced that limit institutions from adopting practices
                                                                                                       that advance credential and degree completion and spur new models
                                                                                                       of education;
                                                                                                       (iii) accreditation requires that institutions support and appropriately
                                                                                                       prioritize intellectual diversity amongst faculty in order to advance aca-
                                                                                                       demic freedom, intellectual inquiry, and student learning;
                                                                                                       (iv) accreditors are not using their role under Federal law to encourage
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC6




                                                                                                       or force institution to violate State laws, unless such State laws violate
                                                                                                       the Constitution or Federal law; and
                                                                                                      (v) accreditors are prohibited from engaging in practices that result in
                                                                                                      credential inflation that burdens students with additional unnecessary
                                                                                                      costs.
                                                                                                      (b) To advance the policies and objectives in subsection (a) of this section,
                                                                                                    the Secretary of Education shall:


                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:45 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00002   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE2.SGM   28APE2


                                                                     Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       17531

                                                                                                       (i) resume recognizing new accreditors to increase competition and ac-
                                                                                                       countability in promoting high-quality, high-value academic programs fo-
                                                                                                       cused on student outcomes;
                                                                                                       (ii) mandate that accreditors require member institutions to use data on
                                                                                                       program-level student outcomes to improve such outcomes, without ref-
                                                                                                       erence to race, ethnicity, or sex;
                                                                                                       (iii) promptly provide to accreditors any noncompliance findings relating
                                                                                                       to member institutions issued after an investigation conducted by the
                                                                                                       Office of Civil Rights under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
                                                                                                       (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.) or Title IX of the Education Amendments Act
                                                                                                       of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.);
                                                                                                       (iv) launch an experimental site, pursuant to section 487A(b) of the Higher
                                                                                                       Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094a(b)), to accelerate innovation and
                                                                                                       improve accountability by establishing new flexible and streamlined quality
                                                                                                       assurance pathways for higher education institutions that provide high-
                                                                                                       quality, high-value academic programs;
                                                                                                       (v) increase the consistency, efficiency, and effectiveness of the accreditor
                                                                                                       recognition review process, including through the use of technology;
                                                                                                       (vi) streamline the process for higher education institutions to change
                                                                                                       accreditors to ensure institutions are not forced to comply with standards
                                                                                                       that are antithetical to institutional values and mission; and
                                                                                                      (vii) update the Accreditation Handbook to ensure that the accreditor
                                                                                                      recognition and reauthorization process is transparent, efficient, and not
                                                                                                      unduly burdensome.
                                                                                                    Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                    to impair or otherwise affect:
                                                                                                      (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
                                                                                                      or the head thereof; or
                                                                                                      (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
                                                                                                      relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
                                                                                                      (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
                                                                                                    subject to the availability of appropriations.
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC6




                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:45 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE2.SGM   28APE2


                                                17532                Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                      (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
                                                                                                    substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
                                                                                                    against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
                                                                                                    employees, or agents, or any other person.




                                                                                                    THE WHITE HOUSE,
                                                                                                    April 23, 2025.


                                                [FR Doc. 2025–07376
                                                Filed 4–25–25; 8:45 am]
                                                Billing code 3395–F4–P
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC6




                                                                                                                                                                                       Trump.EPS</GPH>




                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:45 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00004   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE2.SGM   28APE2
