                                                                      Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 81 / Tuesday, April 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents                      17735

                                                                                                     Presidential Documents



                                                                                                     Executive Order 14285 of April 24, 2025

                                                                                                     Unleashing America’s Offshore Critical Minerals and Re-
                                                                                                     sources

                                                                                                     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
                                                                                                     laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:
                                                                                                     Section 1. Background. The United States has a core national security and
                                                                                                     economic interest in maintaining leadership in deep sea science and tech-
                                                                                                     nology and seabed mineral resources. The United States faces unprecedented
                                                                                                     economic and national security challenges in securing reliable supplies of
                                                                                                     critical minerals independent of foreign adversary control. Vast offshore
                                                                                                     seabed areas hold critical minerals and energy resources. These resources
                                                                                                     are key to strengthening our economy, securing our energy future, and
                                                                                                     reducing dependence on foreign suppliers for critical minerals. The United
                                                                                                     States also controls seabed mineral resources in one of the largest ocean
                                                                                                     areas of the world. Our Nation can, through the exercise of existing authorities
                                                                                                     and by establishing international partnerships, access potentially vast re-
                                                                                                     sources in seabed polymetallic nodules; other subsea geologic structures;
                                                                                                     and coastal deposits containing strategic minerals such as nickel, cobalt,
                                                                                                     copper, manganese, titanium, and rare earth elements, which are vital to
                                                                                                     our national security and economic prosperity.
                                                                                                     Our Nation must take immediate action to accelerate the responsible develop-
                                                                                                     ment of seabed mineral resources, quantify the Nation’s endowment of seabed
                                                                                                     minerals, reinvigorate American leadership in associated extraction and proc-
                                                                                                     essing technologies, and ensure secure supply chains for our defense, infra-
                                                                                                     structure, and energy sectors.
                                                                                                     Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to advance United
                                                                                                     States leadership in seabed mineral development by:
                                                                                                        (a) rapidly developing domestic capabilities for the exploration, character-
                                                                                                     ization, collection, and processing of seabed mineral resources through
                                                                                                     streamlined permitting without compromising environmental and trans-
                                                                                                     parency standards;
                                                                                                        (b) supporting investment in deep sea science, mapping, and technology;
                                                                                                       (c) enhancing coordination among executive departments and agencies
                                                                                                     (agencies) with respect to seabed mineral development activities described
                                                                                                     in this order;
                                                                                                       (d) establishing the United States as a global leader in responsible seabed
                                                                                                     mineral exploration, development technologies, and practices, and as a part-
                                                                                                     ner for countries developing seabed mineral resources in areas within their
                                                                                                     national jurisdictions, including their Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ);
                                                                                                        (e) creating a robust domestic supply chain for critical minerals derived
                                                                                                     from seabed resources to support economic growth, reindustrialization, and
                                                                                                     military preparedness, including through new processing capabilities; and
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC1




                                                                                                       (f) strengthening partnerships with allies and industry to counter China’s
                                                                                                     growing influence over seabed mineral resources and to ensure United States
                                                                                                     companies are well-positioned to support allies and partners interested in
                                                                                                     developing seabed minerals responsibly in areas within their national juris-
                                                                                                     dictions, including their EEZs.
                                                                                                     Sec. 3. Strategic Seabed Critical Mineral Access. Within 60 days of the
                                                                                                     date of this order:


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:40 Apr 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00001   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29APE1.SGM   29APE1


                                                 17736                Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 81 / Tuesday, April 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                        (a) The Secretary of Commerce shall:
                                                                                                        (i) acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
                                                                                                        pheric Administration, and in consultation with the Secretary of State
                                                                                                        and the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau
                                                                                                        of Ocean Energy Management, expedite the process for reviewing and
                                                                                                        issuing seabed mineral exploration licenses and commercial recovery per-
                                                                                                        mits in areas beyond national jurisdiction under the Deep Seabed Hard
                                                                                                        Mineral Resources Act (30 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.), consistent with applicable
                                                                                                        law. The expedited process, consistent with applicable law, should ensure
                                                                                                        efficiency, predictability, and competitiveness for American companies;
                                                                                                        (ii) in coordination with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary
                                                                                                        of Energy, and in consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies,
                                                                                                        provide a report to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy,
                                                                                                        the Chair of the National Energy Dominance Council, and the Vice Chair
                                                                                                        of the National Energy Dominance Council that identifies:
                                                                                                          (A) private sector interest and opportunities for seabed mineral resource
                                                                                                        exploration, mining, and environmental monitoring in the United States
                                                                                                        Outer Continental Shelf; in areas beyond national jurisdiction; and in
                                                                                                        areas within the national jurisdictions of certain other nations that express
                                                                                                        interest in partnering with United States companies on seabed mineral
                                                                                                        development; and
                                                                                                          (B) private sector interest and opportunities for polymetallic nodule
                                                                                                        and other seabed mineral resource processing capacity in the United States
                                                                                                        or on United States-flagged vessels; and
                                                                                                        (iii) in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Interior,
                                                                                                        and the heads of other relevant agencies, and in cooperation with commer-
                                                                                                        cial and other non-governmental organizations, develop a plan to map
                                                                                                        priority areas of the seabed, such as those with abundant or accessible
                                                                                                        undersea resources, in order to accelerate data collection and characteriza-
                                                                                                        tion, prioritizing areas within the United States Outer Continental Shelf.
                                                                                                        (b) The Secretary of the Interior shall:
                                                                                                        (i) establish an expedited process for reviewing and approving permits
                                                                                                        for prospecting and granting leases for exploration, development, and pro-
                                                                                                        duction of seabed mineral resources within the United States Outer Conti-
                                                                                                        nental Shelf under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C.
                                                                                                        1331 et seq.), consistent with applicable law. The expedited process, con-
                                                                                                        sistent with applicable law, should ensure efficiency, predictability, and
                                                                                                        competitiveness for American companies; and
                                                                                                       (ii) identify which critical minerals may be derived from seabed resources
                                                                                                       and coordinate with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy
                                                                                                       to indicate which critical minerals are essential for applications such
                                                                                                       as defense infrastructure, manufacturing, and energy.
                                                                                                       (c) The Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the Secretary of
                                                                                                     State, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Secretary of Energy, shall:
                                                                                                       (i) engage with key partners and allies to offer support for seabed mineral
                                                                                                       resource exploration, extraction, processing, and environmental monitoring
                                                                                                       in areas within the national jurisdictions of those partners and allies,
                                                                                                       including by seeking scientific collaboration and commercial development
                                                                                                       opportunities for United States companies, and by developing a prioritized
                                                                                                       list of countries for engagement; and
                                                                                                        (ii) provide a joint report to the Assistant to the President for Economic
                                                                                                        Policy, the Chair of the National Energy Dominance Council, and the
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC1




                                                                                                        Vice Chair of the National Energy Dominance Council on the feasibility
                                                                                                        of an international benefit-sharing mechanism for seabed mineral resource
                                                                                                        extraction and development that occurs in areas beyond the national juris-
                                                                                                        diction of any country.
                                                                                                        (d) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy shall:
                                                                                                        (i) provide a report to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy,
                                                                                                        the Chair of the National Energy Dominance Council, and the Vice Chair


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:40 Apr 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00002   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29APE1.SGM   29APE1


                                                                      Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 81 / Tuesday, April 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents                      17737

                                                                                                        of the National Energy Dominance Council that addresses the feasibility
                                                                                                        and any potential benefits or drawbacks of using the National Defense
                                                                                                        Stockpile for physical or virtual storage of materials derived from seabed
                                                                                                        polymetallic nodules and of entering offtake agreements for these materials;
                                                                                                        (ii) in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, review and revise
                                                                                                        existing regulations, consistent with applicable law, to support domestic
                                                                                                        processing capabilities for seabed mineral resources, and explore the use
                                                                                                        of grant and loan authorities, the Defense Production Act (50 U.S.C. 4501
                                                                                                        et seq.), and other procurement and financing authorities for this purpose;
                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                       (iii) ensure the Strategic and Critical Materials Board of Directors considers
                                                                                                       seabed mineral resource developments when recommending a strategy
                                                                                                       for ensuring a secure supply of materials designated as critical to national
                                                                                                       security to the Secretary of Defense under the Strategic and Critical Mate-
                                                                                                       rials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98 et seq.).
                                                                                                       (e) The Chief Executive Officer of the United States International Develop-
                                                                                                     ment Finance Corporation, the President of the Export-Import Bank of the
                                                                                                     United States, the Director of the Trade and Development Agency, and
                                                                                                     the heads of other relevant agencies shall provide a joint report to the
                                                                                                     Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Chair of the National
                                                                                                     Energy Dominance Council, and the Vice Chair of the National Energy
                                                                                                     Dominance Council that identifies tools to support domestic and international
                                                                                                     seabed mineral resource exploration, extraction, processing, and environ-
                                                                                                     mental monitoring.
                                                                                                     Sec. 4. Definitions. As used in this order:
                                                                                                       (a) The term ‘‘mineral’’ means a critical mineral as designated pursuant
                                                                                                     to 30 U.S.C. 1606(a)(3), as well as uranium, copper, potash, gold, and any
                                                                                                     other element or compound as determined by the Chair of the National
                                                                                                     Energy Dominance Council.
                                                                                                       (b) The term ‘‘seabed mineral resources’’ means polymetallic nodules,
                                                                                                     cobalt-rich ferromanganese crusts, polymetallic sulfides, heavy mineral sands,
                                                                                                     phosphorites, and other mineral-bearing materials.
                                                                                                       (c) The term ‘‘processing’’ includes the concentration, separation, refine-
                                                                                                     ment, alloying, and conversion of minerals into usable forms.
                                                                                                     Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                     to impair or otherwise affect:
                                                                                                       (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
                                                                                                       or the head thereof; or
                                                                                                       (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
                                                                                                       relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
                                                                                                       (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
                                                                                                     subject to the availability of appropriations.
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC1




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:40 Apr 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29APE1.SGM   29APE1


                                                 17738                Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 81 / Tuesday, April 29, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                       (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
                                                                                                     substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
                                                                                                     against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
                                                                                                     employees, or agents, or any other person.




                                                                                                     THE WHITE HOUSE,
                                                                                                     April 24, 2025.


                                                 [FR Doc. 2025–07470
                                                 Filed 4–28–25; 8:45 am]
                                                 Billing code 3395–F4–P
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC1




                                                                                                                                                                                        Trump.EPS</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:40 Apr 28, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00004   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\29APE1.SGM   29APE1
