                                                                                                                                                                               14549

                                               Federal Register                                    Presidential Documents
                                               Vol. 90, No. 63

                                               Thursday, April 3, 2025



                                               Title 3—                                            Executive Order 14250 of March 27, 2025

                                               The President                                       Addressing Risks From WilmerHale


                                                                                                   By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
                                                                                                   laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:
                                                                                                   Section 1. Background. My Administration is committed to addressing the
                                                                                                   significant risks associated with law firms, particularly so-called ‘‘Big Law’’
                                                                                                   firms, that engage in conduct detrimental to critical American interests.
                                                                                                   Many firms take actions that threaten public safety and national security,
                                                                                                   limit constitutional freedoms, degrade the quality of American elections,
                                                                                                   or undermine bedrock American principles. Moreover, law firms regularly
                                                                                                   conduct this harmful activity through their powerful pro bono practices,
                                                                                                   earmarking hundreds of millions of their clients’ dollars for destructive
                                                                                                   causes, that often directly or indirectly harm their own clients. Lawyers
                                                                                                   and law firms that engage in such egregious conduct should not have access
                                                                                                   to our Nation’s secrets, nor should such conduct be subsidized by Federal
                                                                                                   taxpayer funds or contracts.
                                                                                                   Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP (WilmerHale) is yet another
                                                                                                   law firm that has abandoned the profession’s highest ideals and abused
                                                                                                   its pro bono practice to engage in activities that undermine justice and
                                                                                                   the interests of the United States. For example, WilmerHale engages in
                                                                                                   obvious partisan representations to achieve political ends, supports efforts
                                                                                                   to discriminate on the basis of race, backs the obstruction of efforts to
                                                                                                   prevent illegal aliens from committing horrific crimes and trafficking deadly
                                                                                                   drugs within our borders, and furthers the degradation of the quality of
                                                                                                   American elections, including by supporting efforts designed to enable non-
                                                                                                   citizens to vote. Moreover, WilmerHale itself discriminates against its employ-
                                                                                                   ees based on race and other categories prohibited by civil rights laws,
                                                                                                   including through the use of race-based ‘‘targets.’’
                                                                                                   WilmerHale is also bent on employing lawyers who weaponize the prosecu-
                                                                                                   torial power to upend the democratic process and distort justice. For example,
                                                                                                   WilmerHale rewarded Robert Mueller and his colleagues—Aaron Zebley,
                                                                                                   Mueller’s ‘‘top aide’’ and ‘‘closest associate,’’ and James Quarles—by wel-
                                                                                                   coming them to the firm after they wielded the power of the Federal Govern-
                                                                                                   ment to lead one of the most partisan investigations in American history.
                                                                                                   Mueller’s investigation epitomizes the weaponization of government, yet
                                                                                                   WilmerHale claimed he ‘‘embodies the highest value of our firm and profes-
                                                                                                   sion.’’ Mueller’s ‘‘investigation’’ upended the lives of public servants in
                                                                                                   my Administration who were summoned before ‘‘prosecutors’’ with the effect
                                                                                                   of interfering in their ability to fulfill the mandates of my first term agenda.
                                                                                                   This weaponization of the justice system must not be rewarded, let alone
                                                                                                   condoned.
                                                                                                   Sec. 2. Security Clearance Review. (a) The Attorney General, the Director
                                                                                                   of National Intelligence, and all other relevant heads of executive departments
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC




                                                                                                   and agencies (agencies) shall immediately take steps consistent with applica-
                                                                                                   ble law to suspend any active security clearances held by individuals at
                                                                                                   WilmerHale, pending a review of whether such clearances are consistent
                                                                                                   with the national interest.
                                                                                                     (b) The Office of Management and Budget shall identify all Government
                                                                                                   goods, property, material, and services, including Sensitive Compartmented
                                                                                                   Information Facilities, provided for the benefit of WilmerHale. The heads


                                          VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:55 Apr 02, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00001   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\03APE0.SGM   03APE0


                                               14550                Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 63 / Thursday, April 3, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                   of agencies providing such material or services shall, to the extent permitted
                                                                                                   by law, expeditiously cease such provision.
                                                                                                   Sec. 3. Contracting. (a) To prevent the transfer of taxpayer dollars to Federal
                                                                                                   contractors whose earnings subsidize, among other things, activities that
                                                                                                   are not aligned with American interests, including racial discrimination,
                                                                                                   Government contracting agencies shall, to the extent permissible by law,
                                                                                                   require Government contractors to disclose any business they do with
                                                                                                   WilmerHale and whether that business is related to the subject of the Govern-
                                                                                                   ment contract.
                                                                                                     (b) The heads of agencies shall review all contracts with WilmerHale
                                                                                                   or with entities that disclose doing business with WilmerHale under sub-
                                                                                                   section (a) of this section. To the extent permitted by law, the heads of
                                                                                                   agencies shall:
                                                                                                     (i) take appropriate steps to terminate any contract, to the maximum
                                                                                                     extent permitted by applicable law, including the Federal Acquisition
                                                                                                     Regulation, for which WilmerHale has been hired to perform any service;
                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                     (ii) otherwise align their agency funding decisions with the interests of
                                                                                                     the citizens of the United States; with the goals and priorities of my
                                                                                                     Administration as expressed in executive actions, especially Executive
                                                                                                     Order 14147 of January 20, 2025 (Ending the Weaponization of the Federal
                                                                                                     Government); and as heads of agencies deem appropriate. Within 30 days
                                                                                                     of the date of this order, agencies shall submit to the Director of the
                                                                                                     Office of Management and Budget an assessment of contracts with
                                                                                                     WilmerHale or with entities that do business with WilmerHale effective
                                                                                                     as of the date of this order and any actions taken with respect to those
                                                                                                     contracts in accordance with this order.
                                                                                                   Sec. 4. Racial Discrimination. Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                   to limit the action authorized by section 4 of Executive Order 14230 of
                                                                                                   March 6, 2025 (Addressing Risks from Perkins Coie LLP).
                                                                                                   Sec. 5. Personnel. (a) The heads of agencies shall, to the extent permitted
                                                                                                   by law, provide guidance limiting official access from Federal Government
                                                                                                   buildings to employees of WilmerHale when such access would threaten
                                                                                                   the national security of or otherwise be inconsistent with the interests of
                                                                                                   the United States. In addition, the heads of agencies shall provide guidance
                                                                                                   limiting Government employees acting in their official capacity from engaging
                                                                                                   with WilmerHale employees to ensure consistency with the national security
                                                                                                   and other interests of the United States.
                                                                                                     (b) Agency officials shall, to the extent permitted by law, refrain from
                                                                                                   hiring employees of WilmerHale, absent a waiver from the head of the
                                                                                                   agency, made in consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel
                                                                                                   Management, that such hire will not threaten the national security of the
                                                                                                   United States.
                                                                                                   Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                   to impair or otherwise affect:
                                                                                                     (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
                                                                                                     or the head thereof; or
                                                                                                     (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
                                                                                                     relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
                                                                                                     (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
                                                                                                   subject to the availability of appropriations.
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC




                                          VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:55 Apr 02, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00002   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\03APE0.SGM   03APE0


                                                                    Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 63 / Thursday, April 3, 2025 / Presidential Documents                      14551

                                                                                                     (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
                                                                                                   substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
                                                                                                   against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
                                                                                                   employees, or agents, or any other person.




                                                                                                   THE WHITE HOUSE,
                                                                                                   March 27, 2025.


                                               [FR Doc. 2025–05845
                                               Filed 4–2–25; 8:45 am]
                                               Billing code 3395–F4–P
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC




                                                                                                                                                                                       Trump.EPS</GPH>




                                          VerDate Sep<11>2014   16:55 Apr 02, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\03APE0.SGM   03APE0
