                                                                          Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 76 / Tuesday, April 22, 2025 / Presidential Documents                      16993

                                                                                                         Presidential Documents



                                                                                                         Executive Order 14276 of April 17, 2025

                                                                                                         Restoring American Seafood Competitiveness


                                                                                                         By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
                                                                                                         laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:
                                                                                                         Section 1. Background. The United States controls one of the largest and
                                                                                                         most abundant ocean resources in the world, with over 4 million square
                                                                                                         miles of prime fishing grounds. With this vast resource and centuries of
                                                                                                         hard work from American fishermen, our Nation has the greatest seafood
                                                                                                         in the world.
                                                                                                         Most American fish stocks are healthy and have viable markets. Despite
                                                                                                         these opportunities, seafood is one of the most heavily regulated sectors
                                                                                                         in the United States. Federal overregulation has restricted fishermen from
                                                                                                         productively harvesting American seafood including through restrictive catch
                                                                                                         limits, selling our fishing grounds to foreign offshore wind companies, inac-
                                                                                                         curate and outdated fisheries data, and delayed adoption of modern tech-
                                                                                                         nology.
                                                                                                         The United States should be the world’s dominant seafood leader. But
                                                                                                         in addition to overregulation, unfair trade practices have put our seafood
                                                                                                         markets at a competitive disadvantage. Nearly 90 percent of seafood on
                                                                                                         our shelves is now imported, and the seafood trade deficit stands at over
                                                                                                         $20 billion. The erosion of American seafood competitiveness at the hands
                                                                                                         of unfair foreign trade practices must end.
                                                                                                         Sec. 2. Purpose. The United States must address unfair trade practices,
                                                                                                         eliminate unsafe imports, level the unfair playing field that has benefited
                                                                                                         foreign fishing companies, promote ethical sourcing, reduce regulatory bur-
                                                                                                         dens, and ensure the integrity of the seafood supply chain. Previously,
                                                                                                         I signed Executive Order 13921 of May 7, 2020 (Promoting American Seafood
                                                                                                         Competitiveness and Economic Growth). That successful order—which re-
                                                                                                         mains in effect—enhanced the competitiveness of United States seafood,
                                                                                                         streamlined regulations, supported maritime jobs and coastal economies,
                                                                                                         and improved data collection. During the past 4 years, our fishermen were
                                                                                                         once again crushed under the pressure of unnecessary regulations and unfa-
                                                                                                         vorable policies. It is vital that we now build upon our previous hard
                                                                                                         work with new, additional measures to promote domestic fishing.
                                                                                                         Sec. 3. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to promote the productive
                                                                                                         harvest of our seafood resources; unburden our commercial fishermen from
                                                                                                         costly and inefficient regulation; combat illegal, unreported, and unregulated
                                                                                                         (IUU) fishing; and protect our seafood markets from the unfair trade practices
                                                                                                         of foreign nations.
                                                                                                         Sec. 4. A New Era of Seafood Policy. (a) The Secretary of Commerce, in
                                                                                                         consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and with
                                                                                                         input from the United States fishing industry, shall immediately consider
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E0




                                                                                                         suspending, revising, or rescinding regulations that overly burden America’s
                                                                                                         commercial fishing, aquaculture, and fish processing industries at the fishery-
                                                                                                         specific level. Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
                                                                                                         Commerce shall identify the most heavily overregulated fisheries requiring
                                                                                                         action and take appropriate action to reduce the regulatory burden on them,
                                                                                                         in cooperation with the Regional Fishery Management Councils, interagency
                                                                                                         partners, and through public-private partnerships, as appropriate. This proc-
                                                                                                         ess shall include the following actions:


                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:58 Apr 21, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00001   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\22APE0.SGM   22APE0


                                                     16994                Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 76 / Tuesday, April 22, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                            (i) The Secretary of Commerce shall request that each Regional Fishery
                                                                                                            Management Council, within 180 days of the date of this order, provide
                                                                                                            the Secretary of Commerce with updates to their recommendations sub-
                                                                                                            mitted pursuant to Executive Order 13921, to reduce burdens on domestic
                                                                                                            fishing and to increase production. Building upon the earlier goals, identi-
                                                                                                            fied actions should stabilize markets, improve access, enhance economic
                                                                                                            profitability, and prevent closures. The Regional Fishery Management
                                                                                                            Councils will commit to a work plan and a schedule for implementation
                                                                                                            to ensure these actions are prioritized.
                                                                                                            (ii) The Secretary of Commerce shall solicit direct public comments, includ-
                                                                                                            ing from fishing industry members, technology experts, marine scientists,
                                                                                                            and other relevant parties, for innovative ideas to improve fisheries manage-
                                                                                                            ment and science within the requirements of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
                                                                                                            Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.); the Endangered
                                                                                                            Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); the Marine Mammal Protection
                                                                                                            Act (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.); and other applicable laws.
                                                                                                           (iii) The Secretary of Commerce shall pursue additional direct public
                                                                                                           engagement to ensure executive departments and agencies (agencies) are
                                                                                                           focusing core fisheries management and science functions to directly sup-
                                                                                                           port priority needs that strengthen our Nation’s seafood supply chain.
                                                                                                           (b) Upon completion of the process described in subsection (a) of this
                                                                                                         section, the Secretary of Commerce shall consider updating the Department
                                                                                                         of Commerce’s contribution to the Unified Regulatory Agenda. The Secretary
                                                                                                         of Commerce shall resume submission of annual reports to the Director
                                                                                                         of the Office of Management and Budget, the Assistant to the President
                                                                                                         for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy,
                                                                                                         and the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality pursuant to
                                                                                                         these activities as described in Executive Order 13921.
                                                                                                           (c) The Secretary of Commerce shall direct the National Marine Fisheries
                                                                                                         Service to incorporate less expensive and more reliable technologies and
                                                                                                         cooperative research programs into fishery assessments conducted pursuant
                                                                                                         to 16 U.S.C. 1867. As soon as practicable, the Secretary of Commerce shall
                                                                                                         expand exempted fishing permit programs to promote fishing opportunities
                                                                                                         nationwide. Further, the Secretary of Commerce shall take all appropriate
                                                                                                         action to modernize data collection and analytical practices that will improve
                                                                                                         the responsiveness of fisheries management to real-time ocean conditions.
                                                                                                           (d) The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of
                                                                                                         Agriculture, shall develop and implement an America First Seafood Strategy
                                                                                                         to promote production, marketing, sale, and export of United States fishery
                                                                                                         and aquaculture products and strengthen domestic processing capacity. This
                                                                                                         program shall accelerate the Department of Agriculture’s efforts to educate
                                                                                                         American consumers about the health benefits of seafood and increase sea-
                                                                                                         food purchases in nutrition programs.
                                                                                                            (e) Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce
                                                                                                         and the United States Trade Representative, in consultation with members
                                                                                                         of the Interagency Seafood Trade Task Force, shall assess seafood competi-
                                                                                                         tiveness issues and jointly develop a comprehensive seafood trade strategy.
                                                                                                         The strategy shall be based upon the Seafood Trade Strategy of November
                                                                                                         3, 2020, that improves access to foreign markets and addresses unfair trade
                                                                                                         practices—including IUU fishing and unjustified non-tariff barriers—while
                                                                                                         ensuring a fair and competitive domestic market for United States seafood
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E0




                                                                                                         producers.
                                                                                                            (f) The United States Trade Representative shall examine the relevant
                                                                                                         trade practices of major seafood-producing nations, including with regard
                                                                                                         to IUU fishing and the use of forced labor in the seafood supply chain,
                                                                                                         and consider appropriate responses, including pursuing solutions through
                                                                                                         negotiations or trade enforcement authorities, such as under section 301
                                                                                                         of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2411).


                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:58 Apr 21, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00002   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\22APE0.SGM   22APE0


                                                                          Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 76 / Tuesday, April 22, 2025 / Presidential Documents                      16995

                                                                                                           (g) The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of
                                                                                                         Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and other
                                                                                                         relevant agencies, shall immediately consider revising or rescinding recent
                                                                                                         expansions of the Seafood Import Monitoring Program to unnecessary species
                                                                                                         and further improve the program to more effectively target high-risk ship-
                                                                                                         ments from nations that routinely violate international fishery regulations.
                                                                                                         The Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
                                                                                                         and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall use cost savings to improve
                                                                                                         thorough checks at United States ports to prevent IUU seafood from entering
                                                                                                         the market. The Secretary of Commerce shall further consider options to
                                                                                                         use improved technology to identify foreign fishery-related violations.
                                                                                                           (h) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce,
                                                                                                         in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall review all existing
                                                                                                         marine national monuments and provide recommendations to the President
                                                                                                         of any that should be opened to commercial fishing. In making these rec-
                                                                                                         ommendations, the Secretary of Commerce will consider whether the opening
                                                                                                         of the monuments to commercial fishing would be consistent with the
                                                                                                         preservation of the historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures,
                                                                                                         and other objects of historic or scientific interest originally identified in
                                                                                                         the proclamations establishing the marine national monuments.
                                                                                                         Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                         to impair or otherwise affect:
                                                                                                            (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
                                                                                                            or the head thereof; or
                                                                                                            (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
                                                                                                            relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
                                                                                                           (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
                                                                                                         subject to the availability of appropriations.
                                                                                                           (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
                                                                                                         substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
                                                                                                         against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
                                                                                                         employees, or agents, or any other person.
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PRESDOC-E0




                                                                                                         THE WHITE HOUSE,
                                                                                                         April 17, 2025.


                                                     [FR Doc. 2025–07062
                                                     Filed 4–21–25; 11:15 am]
                                                     Billing code 3395–F4–P
                                                                                                                                                                                             Trump.EPS</GPH>




                                                VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:58 Apr 21, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\22APE0.SGM   22APE0
