                                                                     Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       17519

                                                                                                    Presidential Documents



                                                                                                    Executive Order 14277 of April 23, 2025

                                                                                                    Advancing Artificial Intelligence Education for American
                                                                                                    Youth

                                                                                                    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
                                                                                                    laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:
                                                                                                    Section 1. Background. Artificial intelligence (AI) is rapidly transforming
                                                                                                    the modern world, driving innovation across industries, enhancing produc-
                                                                                                    tivity, and reshaping the way we live and work. To ensure the United
                                                                                                    States remains a global leader in this technological revolution, we must
                                                                                                    provide our Nation’s youth with opportunities to cultivate the skills and
                                                                                                    understanding necessary to use and create the next generation of AI tech-
                                                                                                    nology. By fostering AI competency, we will equip our students with the
                                                                                                    foundational knowledge and skills necessary to adapt to and thrive in an
                                                                                                    increasingly digital society. Early learning and exposure to AI concepts
                                                                                                    not only demystifies this powerful technology but also sparks curiosity
                                                                                                    and creativity, preparing students to become active and responsible partici-
                                                                                                    pants in the workforce of the future and nurturing the next generation
                                                                                                    of American AI innovators to propel our Nation to new heights of scientific
                                                                                                    and economic achievement.
                                                                                                    To achieve this vision, we must also invest in our educators and equip
                                                                                                    them with the tools and knowledge to not only train students about AI,
                                                                                                    but also to utilize AI in their classrooms to improve educational outcomes.
                                                                                                    Professional development programs focused on AI education will empower
                                                                                                    educators to confidently guide students through this complex and evolving
                                                                                                    field. Educators, industry leaders, and employers who rely on an AI-skilled
                                                                                                    workforce should partner to create educational programs that equip students
                                                                                                    with essential AI skills and competencies across all learning pathways.
                                                                                                    While AI education in kindergarten through twelfth grade (K–12) is critical,
                                                                                                    our Nation must also make resources available for lifelong learners to develop
                                                                                                    new skills for a changing workforce. By establishing a strong framework
                                                                                                    that integrates early student exposure with comprehensive teacher training
                                                                                                    and other resources for workforce development, we can ensure that every
                                                                                                    American has the opportunity to learn about AI from the earliest stages
                                                                                                    of their educational journey through postsecondary education, fostering a
                                                                                                    culture of innovation and critical thinking that will solidify our Nation’s
                                                                                                    leadership in the AI-driven future.
                                                                                                    Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to promote AI literacy
                                                                                                    and proficiency among Americans by promoting the appropriate integration
                                                                                                    of AI into education, providing comprehensive AI training for educators,
                                                                                                    and fostering early exposure to AI concepts and technology to develop
                                                                                                    an AI-ready workforce and the next generation of American AI innovators.
                                                                                                    Sec. 3. Definition. For the purposes of this order, ‘‘artificial intelligence’’
                                                                                                    or ‘‘AI’’ has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 9401(3).
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC4




                                                                                                    Sec. 4. Establishing an Artificial Intelligence Education Task Force. (a) There
                                                                                                    is hereby established the White House Task Force on Artificial Intelligence
                                                                                                    Education (Task Force).
                                                                                                       (b) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall
                                                                                                    be the Chair of the Task Force.
                                                                                                       (c) The Task Force membership shall consist of the following members:
                                                                                                       (i) the Secretary of Agriculture;


                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:42 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00001   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE0.SGM   28APE0


                                                17520                Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                       (ii) the Secretary of Labor;
                                                                                                       (iii) the Secretary of Energy;
                                                                                                       (iv) the Secretary of Education;
                                                                                                       (v) the Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF);
                                                                                                       (vi) the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy;
                                                                                                       (vii) the Special Advisor for AI & Crypto;
                                                                                                       (viii) the Assistant to the President for Policy; and
                                                                                                       (ix) the heads of other such executive departments and agencies (agencies)
                                                                                                       and offices that the Chair may designate or invite to participate.
                                                                                                       (d) The Task Force shall be responsible for implementing the policy stated
                                                                                                    in section 2 of this order and coordinating Federal efforts related to AI
                                                                                                    education, including the actions outlined in this order.
                                                                                                    Sec. 5. Establishing the Presidential Artificial Intelligence Challenge. (a)
                                                                                                    Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Task Force shall establish
                                                                                                    plans for a Presidential Artificial Intelligence Challenge (Challenge), and
                                                                                                    the agencies represented on the Task Force shall, as appropriate and con-
                                                                                                    sistent with applicable law, implement the plans by holding the Challenge
                                                                                                    no later than 12 months from the submission of the plan. The Challenge
                                                                                                    shall encourage and highlight student and educator achievements in AI,
                                                                                                    promote wide geographic adoption of technological advancement, and foster
                                                                                                    collaboration between government, academia, philanthropy, and industry
                                                                                                    to address national challenges with AI solutions.
                                                                                                       (b) The Challenge shall feature multiple age categories, distinct geographic
                                                                                                    regions for competition, and a variety of topical themes of competition
                                                                                                    to reflect the breadth of AI applications, encouraging interdisciplinary explo-
                                                                                                    ration.
                                                                                                       (c) The Task Force and, as appropriate, agencies represented on the Task
                                                                                                    Force shall collaborate with relevant agencies and private sector entities
                                                                                                    to provide technical expertise, resources, and promotional support for imple-
                                                                                                    menting the Challenge, including through existing funding vehicles.
                                                                                                    Sec. 6. Improving Education Through Artificial Intelligence. (a) To provide
                                                                                                    resources for K–12 AI education, agencies represented on the Task Force
                                                                                                    shall seek to establish public-private partnerships with leading AI industry
                                                                                                    organizations, academic institutions, nonprofit entities, and other organiza-
                                                                                                    tions with expertise in AI and computer science education to collaboratively
                                                                                                    develop online resources focused on teaching K–12 students foundational
                                                                                                    AI literacy and critical thinking skills. The Task Force shall promptly an-
                                                                                                    nounce such public-private partnerships on a rolling basis as they are formed.
                                                                                                       (i) The Task Force shall seek to utilize industry commitments and identify
                                                                                                       any Federal funding mechanisms, including discretionary grants, that can
                                                                                                       be used to provide resources for K–12 AI education. To the extent prac-
                                                                                                       ticable and as consistent with applicable law, agencies shall prioritize
                                                                                                       funding for such purposes when it would further the aims of the program
                                                                                                       for which funding is available.
                                                                                                      (ii) The Task Force shall work to ensure the resources funded as described
                                                                                                      in subsection (i) of this section are ready for use in K–12 instruction
                                                                                                      within 180 days following the Task Force’s formal announcement of the
                                                                                                      first slate of public-private partnerships.
                                                                                                      (b) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Task Force shall identify
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC4




                                                                                                    existing Federal AI resources on which agencies may rely, such as the
                                                                                                    NSF- and Department of Agriculture–sponsored National AI Research Insti-
                                                                                                    tutes, to support partnerships with State and local educational agencies
                                                                                                    to improve AI education.
                                                                                                      (c) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education
                                                                                                    shall issue guidance regarding the use of formula and discretionary grant
                                                                                                    funds to improve education outcomes using AI, including but not limited


                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:42 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00002   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE0.SGM   28APE0


                                                                     Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       17521

                                                                                                    to AI-based high-quality instructional resources; high-impact tutoring; and
                                                                                                    college and career pathway exploration, advising, and navigation.
                                                                                                       (d) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education
                                                                                                    shall identify and implement ways to utilize existing research programs
                                                                                                    to assist State and local efforts to use AI for improved student achievement,
                                                                                                    attainment, and mobility.
                                                                                                    Sec. 7. Enhancing Training for Educators on Artificial Intelligence. (a) Within
                                                                                                    120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education shall take
                                                                                                    steps to prioritize the use of AI in discretionary grant programs for teacher
                                                                                                    training authorized by the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965
                                                                                                    (Public Law 89–10), as amended, and Title II of the Higher Education Act
                                                                                                    of 1965 (Public Law 89–329), as amended, including for:
                                                                                                       (i) reducing time-intensive administrative tasks;
                                                                                                       (ii) improving teacher training and evaluation;
                                                                                                       (iii) providing professional development for all educators, so they can
                                                                                                       integrate the fundamentals of AI into all subject areas; and
                                                                                                       (iv) providing professional development in foundational computer science
                                                                                                       and AI, preparing educators to effectively teach AI in stand-alone computer
                                                                                                       science and other relevant courses.
                                                                                                       (b) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Director of the NSF
                                                                                                    shall take steps to prioritize research on the use of AI in education. The
                                                                                                    Director of the NSF shall also utilize existing programs to create teacher
                                                                                                    training opportunities that help educators effectively integrate AI-based tools
                                                                                                    and modalities in classrooms.
                                                                                                       (c) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Agriculture
                                                                                                    shall take steps to prioritize research, extension, and education on the use
                                                                                                    of AI in formal and non-formal education through 4–H and the Cooperative
                                                                                                    Extension System. The Secretary of Agriculture shall also utilize existing
                                                                                                    programs to create teacher and educator training opportunities that help
                                                                                                    effectively integrate AI-based tools and modalities into classrooms and cur-
                                                                                                    riculum.
                                                                                                    Sec. 8. Promoting Registered Apprenticeships. (a) Within 120 days of the
                                                                                                    date of this order, the Secretary of Labor shall seek to increase participation
                                                                                                    in AI-related Registered Apprenticeships, including by:
                                                                                                       (i) Prioritizing the development and growth of Registered Apprenticeships
                                                                                                       in AI-related occupations. The Secretary of Labor shall establish specific
                                                                                                       goals for growing Registered Apprenticeships in AI-related occupations
                                                                                                       across industries; and
                                                                                                       (ii) Using apprenticeship intermediary contracts and allocating existing
                                                                                                       discretionary funds, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
                                                                                                       to engage industry organizations and employers and facilitate the develop-
                                                                                                       ment of Registered Apprenticeship programs in AI-related occupations.
                                                                                                       In doing so, the Secretary of Labor shall support the creation of industry-
                                                                                                       developed program standards to be registered on a nationwide basis, ena-
                                                                                                       bling individual employers to adopt the standards without requiring indi-
                                                                                                       vidual registry.
                                                                                                       (b) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Labor
                                                                                                    shall encourage States and grantees to use funding provided under the
                                                                                                    Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) (Public Law 113–128),
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC4




                                                                                                    as amended, to develop AI skills and support work-based learning opportuni-
                                                                                                    ties within occupations utilizing AI by:
                                                                                                       (i) issuing guidance to State and local workforce development boards
                                                                                                       encouraging the use of WIOA youth formula funds to help youth develop
                                                                                                       AI skills;
                                                                                                       (ii) clarifying that States can use Governor set-asides to integrate AI learning
                                                                                                       opportunities into youth programs across the State; and


                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:42 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE0.SGM   28APE0


                                                17522                Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                      (iii) consistent with applicable law, establishing AI skills training and
                                                                                                      work-based learning as a grant priority in all Employment and Training
                                                                                                      Administration youth-focused discretionary grant programs.
                                                                                                      (c) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Labor,
                                                                                                    through the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Employment and Training,
                                                                                                    and in collaboration with the Director of the NSF, shall engage with relevant
                                                                                                    State and local workforce development boards, industry organizations, edu-
                                                                                                    cation and training providers, and employers to identify and promote high-
                                                                                                    quality AI skills education coursework and certifications across the country.
                                                                                                    Through such engagement, the Secretary of Labor shall:
                                                                                                      (i) identify applicable funding opportunities to expand access to high-
                                                                                                      quality AI coursework and certifications;
                                                                                                       (ii) set performance targets for youth participation through any grants
                                                                                                       awarded for this purpose; and
                                                                                                       (iii) utilize industry and philanthropic partnerships to the extent prac-
                                                                                                       ticable.
                                                                                                       (d) Within 120 days of the date of this order, and in consultation with
                                                                                                    the Secretary of Education and the Director of the NSF, the Secretary of
                                                                                                    Labor shall support the creation of opportunities for high school students
                                                                                                    to take AI courses and certification programs by giving priority consideration
                                                                                                    in awarding grants as appropriate and consistent with applicable law to
                                                                                                    providers that commit to use funds to develop or expand AI courses and
                                                                                                    certification programs. The Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education
                                                                                                    shall encourage recipients to build partnerships with States and local school
                                                                                                    districts to encourage those entities to consider offering high school students
                                                                                                    dual enrollment opportunities to take courses to earn postsecondary creden-
                                                                                                    tials and industry-recognized AI credentials concurrent with high school
                                                                                                    education.
                                                                                                      (e) Within 120 days of the date of this order, all agencies that provide
                                                                                                    educational grants shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
                                                                                                    consider AI as a priority area within existing Federal fellowship and scholar-
                                                                                                    ship for service programs.
                                                                                                    Sec. 9. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                    to impair or otherwise affect:
                                                                                                      (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
                                                                                                      or the head thereof; or
                                                                                                      (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
                                                                                                      relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
                                                                                                      (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
                                                                                                    subject to the availability of appropriations.
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC4




                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:42 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00004   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE0.SGM   28APE0


                                                                     Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 80 / Monday, April 28, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       17523

                                                                                                      (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
                                                                                                    substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
                                                                                                    against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
                                                                                                    employees, or agents, or any other person.




                                                                                                    THE WHITE HOUSE,
                                                                                                    April 23, 2025.


                                                [FR Doc. 2025–07368
                                                Filed 4–25–25; 8:45 am]
                                                Billing code 3395–F4–P
khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with PRESDOC4




                                                                                                                                                                                        Trump.EPS</GPH>




                                           VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:42 Apr 25, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00005   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\28APE0.SGM   28APE0
