                                                                                                                                                                                 15041

                                                 Federal Register                                    Presidential Documents
                                                 Vol. 90, No. 65

                                                 Monday, April 7, 2025



                                                 Title 3—                                            Executive Order 14257 of April 2, 2025

                                                 The President                                       Regulating Imports With a Reciprocal Tariff To Rectify
                                                                                                     Trade Practices That Contribute to Large and Persistent An-
                                                                                                     nual United States Goods Trade Deficits

                                                                                                     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
                                                                                                     laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency
                                                                                                     Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)(IEEPA), the National Emer-
                                                                                                     gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.)(NEA), section 604 of the Trade Act
                                                                                                     of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title 3, United
                                                                                                     States Code,
                                                                                                     I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find
                                                                                                     that underlying conditions, including a lack of reciprocity in our bilateral
                                                                                                     trade relationships, disparate tariff rates and non-tariff barriers, and U.S.
                                                                                                     trading partners’ economic policies that suppress domestic wages and con-
                                                                                                     sumption, as indicated by large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade
                                                                                                     deficits, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national secu-
                                                                                                     rity and economy of the United States. That threat has its source in whole
                                                                                                     or substantial part outside the United States in the domestic economic
                                                                                                     policies of key trading partners and structural imbalances in the global
                                                                                                     trading system. I hereby declare a national emergency with respect to this
                                                                                                     threat.
                                                                                                     On January 20, 2025, I signed the America First Trade Policy Presidential
                                                                                                     Memorandum directing my Administration to investigate the causes of our
                                                                                                     country’s large and persistent annual trade deficits in goods, including the
                                                                                                     economic and national security implications and risks resulting from such
                                                                                                     deficits, and to undertake a review of, and identify, any unfair trade practices
                                                                                                     by other countries. On February 13, 2025, I signed a Presidential Memo-
                                                                                                     randum entitled ‘‘Reciprocal Trade and Tariffs,’’ that directed further review
                                                                                                     of our trading partners’ non-reciprocal trading practices, and noted the rela-
                                                                                                     tionship between non-reciprocal practices and the trade deficit. On April
                                                                                                     1, 2025, I received the final results of those investigations, and I am taking
                                                                                                     action today based on those results.
                                                                                                     Large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits have led to the
                                                                                                     hollowing out of our manufacturing base; inhibited our ability to scale
                                                                                                     advanced domestic manufacturing capacity; undermined critical supply
                                                                                                     chains; and rendered our defense-industrial base dependent on foreign adver-
                                                                                                     saries. Large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits are caused
                                                                                                     in substantial part by a lack of reciprocity in our bilateral trade relationships.
                                                                                                     This situation is evidenced by disparate tariff rates and non-tariff barriers
                                                                                                     that make it harder for U.S. manufacturers to sell their products in foreign
                                                                                                     markets. It is also evidenced by the economic policies of key U.S. trading
                                                                                                     partners insofar as they suppress domestic wages and consumption, and
                                                                                                     thereby demand for U.S. exports, while artificially increasing the competitive-
                                                                                                     ness of their goods in global markets. These conditions have given rise
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                     to the national emergency that this order is intended to abate and resolve.
                                                                                                     For decades starting in 1934, U.S. trade policy has been organized around
                                                                                                     the principle of reciprocity. The Congress directed the President to secure
                                                                                                     reduced reciprocal tariff rates from key trading partners first through bilateral
                                                                                                     trade agreements and later under the auspices of the global trading system.
                                                                                                     Between 1934 and 1945, the executive branch negotiated and signed 32
                                                                                                     bilateral reciprocal trade agreements designed to lower tariff rates on a


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15042                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                     reciprocal basis. After 1947 through 1994, participating countries engaged
                                                                                                     in eight rounds of negotiation, which resulted in the General Agreements
                                                                                                     on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and seven subsequent tariff reduction rounds.
                                                                                                     However, despite a commitment to the principle of reciprocity, the trading
                                                                                                     relationship between the United States and its trading partners has become
                                                                                                     highly unbalanced, particularly in recent years. The post-war international
                                                                                                     economic system was based upon three incorrect assumptions: first, that
                                                                                                     if the United States led the world in liberalizing tariff and non-tariff barriers
                                                                                                     the rest of the world would follow; second, that such liberalization would
                                                                                                     ultimately result in more economic convergence and increased domestic
                                                                                                     consumption among U.S. trading partners converging towards the share in
                                                                                                     the United States; and third, that as a result, the United States would
                                                                                                     not accrue large and persistent goods trade deficits.
                                                                                                     This framework set in motion events, agreements, and commitments that
                                                                                                     did not result in reciprocity or generally increase domestic consumption
                                                                                                     in foreign economies relative to domestic consumption in the United States.
                                                                                                     Those events, in turn, created large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade
                                                                                                     deficits as a feature of the global trading system.
                                                                                                     Put simply, while World Trade Organization (WTO) Members agreed to
                                                                                                     bind their tariff rates on a most-favored-nation (MFN) basis, and thereby
                                                                                                     provide their best tariff rates to all WTO Members, they did not agree
                                                                                                     to bind their tariff rates at similarly low levels or to apply tariff rates
                                                                                                     on a reciprocal basis. Consequently, according to the WTO, the United
                                                                                                     States has among the lowest simple average MFN tariff rates in the world
                                                                                                     at 3.3 percent, while many of our key trading partners like Brazil (11.2
                                                                                                     percent), China (7.5 percent), the European Union (EU) (5 percent), India
                                                                                                     (17 percent), and Vietnam (9.4 percent) have simple average MFN tariff
                                                                                                     rates that are significantly higher.
                                                                                                     Moreover, these average MFN tariff rates conceal much larger discrepancies
                                                                                                     across economies in tariff rates applied to particular products. For example,
                                                                                                     the United States imposes a 2.5 percent tariff on passenger vehicle imports
                                                                                                     (with internal combustion engines), while the European Union (10 percent),
                                                                                                     India (70 percent), and China (15 percent) impose much higher duties on
                                                                                                     the same product. For network switches and routers, the United States
                                                                                                     imposes a 0 percent tariff, but for similar products, India (10 percent) levies
                                                                                                     a higher rate. Brazil (18 percent) and Indonesia (30 percent) impose a higher
                                                                                                     tariff on ethanol than does the United States (2.5 percent). For rice in
                                                                                                     the husk, the U.S. MFN tariff is 2.7 percent (ad valorem equivalent), while
                                                                                                     India (80 percent), Malaysia (40 percent), and Turkey (an average of 31
                                                                                                     percent) impose higher rates. Apples enter the United States duty-free, but
                                                                                                     not so in Turkey (60.3 percent) and India (50 percent).
                                                                                                     Similarly, non-tariff barriers also deprive U.S. manufacturers of reciprocal
                                                                                                     access to markets around the world. The 2025 National Trade Estimate
                                                                                                     Report on Foreign Trade Barriers (NTE) details a great number of non-
                                                                                                     tariff barriers to U.S. exports around the world on a trading-partner by
                                                                                                     trading-partner basis. These barriers include import barriers and licensing
                                                                                                     restrictions; customs barriers and shortcomings in trade facilitation; technical
                                                                                                     barriers to trade (e.g., unnecessarily trade restrictive standards, conformity
                                                                                                     assessment procedures, or technical regulations); sanitary and phytosanitary
                                                                                                     measures that unnecessarily restrict trade without furthering safety objectives;
                                                                                                     inadequate patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark regimes and inad-
                                                                                                     equate enforcement of intellectual property rights; discriminatory licensing
                                                                                                     requirements or regulatory standards; barriers to cross-border data flows
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                     and discriminatory practices affecting trade in digital products; investment
                                                                                                     barriers; subsidies; anticompetitive practices; discrimination in favor of do-
                                                                                                     mestic state-owned enterprises, and failures by governments in protecting
                                                                                                     labor and environment standards; bribery; and corruption.
                                                                                                     Moreover, non-tariff barriers include the domestic economic policies and
                                                                                                     practices of our trading partners, including currency practices and value-
                                                                                                     added taxes, and their associated market distortions, that suppress domestic


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00004   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15043

                                                                                                     consumption and boost exports to the United States. This lack of reciprocity
                                                                                                     is apparent in the fact that the share of consumption to Gross Domestic
                                                                                                     Product (GDP) in the United States is about 68 percent, but it is much
                                                                                                     lower in others like Ireland (27 percent), Singapore (31 percent), China
                                                                                                     (39 percent), South Korea (49 percent), and Germany (50 percent).
                                                                                                     At the same time, efforts by the United States to address these imbalances
                                                                                                     have stalled. Trading partners have repeatedly blocked multilateral and
                                                                                                     plurilateral solutions, including in the context of new rounds of tariff negotia-
                                                                                                     tions and efforts to discipline non-tariff barriers. At the same time, with
                                                                                                     the U.S. economy disproportionately open to imports, U.S. trading partners
                                                                                                     have had few incentives to provide reciprocal treatment to U.S. exports
                                                                                                     in the context of bilateral trade negotiations.
                                                                                                     These structural asymmetries have driven the large and persistent annual
                                                                                                     U.S. goods trade deficit. Even for countries with which the United States
                                                                                                     may enjoy an occasional bilateral trade surplus, the accumulation of tariff
                                                                                                     and non-tariff barriers on U.S. exports may make that surplus smaller than
                                                                                                     it would have been without such barriers. Permitting these asymmetries
                                                                                                     to continue is not sustainable in today’s economic and geopolitical environ-
                                                                                                     ment because of the effect they have on U.S. domestic production. A nation’s
                                                                                                     ability to produce domestically is the bedrock of its national and economic
                                                                                                     security.
                                                                                                     Both my first Administration in 2017, and the Biden Administration in
                                                                                                     2022, recognized that increasing domestic manufacturing is critical to U.S.
                                                                                                     national security. According to 2023 United Nations data, U.S. manufacturing
                                                                                                     output as a share of global manufacturing output was 17.4 percent, down
                                                                                                     from a peak in 2001 of 28.4 percent.
                                                                                                     Over time, the persistent decline in U.S. manufacturing output has reduced
                                                                                                     U.S. manufacturing capacity. The need to maintain robust and resilient
                                                                                                     domestic manufacturing capacity is particularly acute in certain advanced
                                                                                                     industrial sectors like automobiles, shipbuilding, pharmaceuticals, technology
                                                                                                     products, machine tools, and basic and fabricated metals, because once
                                                                                                     competitors gain sufficient global market share in these sectors, U.S. produc-
                                                                                                     tion could be permanently weakened. It is also critical to scale manufacturing
                                                                                                     capacity in the defense-industrial sector so that we can manufacture the
                                                                                                     defense materiel and equipment necessary to protect American interests
                                                                                                     at home and abroad.
                                                                                                     In fact, because the United States has supplied so much military equipment
                                                                                                     to other countries, U.S. stockpiles of military goods are too low to be
                                                                                                     compatible with U.S. national defense interests. Furthermore, U.S. defense
                                                                                                     companies must develop new, advanced manufacturing technologies across
                                                                                                     a range of critical sectors including bio-manufacturing, batteries, and micro-
                                                                                                     electronics. If the United States wishes to maintain an effective security
                                                                                                     umbrella to defend its citizens and homeland, as well as for its allies
                                                                                                     and partners, it needs to have a large upstream manufacturing and goods-
                                                                                                     producing ecosystem to manufacture these products without undue reliance
                                                                                                     on imports for key inputs.
                                                                                                     Increased reliance on foreign producers for goods also has compromised
                                                                                                     U.S. economic security by rendering U.S. supply chains vulnerable to geo-
                                                                                                     political disruption and supply shocks. In recent years, the vulnerability
                                                                                                     of the U.S. economy in this respect was exposed both during the COVID–
                                                                                                     19 pandemic, when Americans had difficulty accessing essential products,
                                                                                                     as well as when the Houthi rebels later began attacking cargo ships in
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                     the Middle East.
                                                                                                     The decline of U.S. manufacturing capacity threatens the U.S. economy
                                                                                                     in other ways, including through the loss of manufacturing jobs. From 1997
                                                                                                     to 2024, the United States lost around 5 million manufacturing jobs and
                                                                                                     experienced one of the largest drops in manufacturing employment in history.
                                                                                                     Furthermore, many manufacturing job losses were concentrated in specific
                                                                                                     geographical areas. In these areas, the loss of manufacturing jobs contributed


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00005   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15044                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                     to the decline in rates of family formation and to the rise of other social
                                                                                                     trends, like the abuse of opioids, that have imposed profound costs on
                                                                                                     the U.S. economy.
                                                                                                     The future of American competitiveness depends on reversing these trends.
                                                                                                     Today, manufacturing represents just 11 percent of U.S. gross domestic
                                                                                                     product, yet it accounts for 35 percent of American productivity growth
                                                                                                     and 60 percent of our exports. Importantly, U.S. manufacturing is the main
                                                                                                     engine of innovation in the United States, responsible for 55 percent of
                                                                                                     all patents and 70 percent of all research and development (R&D) spending.
                                                                                                     The fact that R&D expenditures by U.S. multinational enterprises in China
                                                                                                     grew at an average rate of 13.6 percent a year between 2003 and 2017,
                                                                                                     while their R&D expenditures in the United States grew by an average
                                                                                                     of just 5 percent per year during the same time period, is evidence of
                                                                                                     the strong link between manufacturing and innovation. Furthermore, every
                                                                                                     manufacturing job spurs 7 to 12 new jobs in other related industries, helping
                                                                                                     to build and sustain our economy.
                                                                                                     Just as a nation that does not produce manufactured products cannot maintain
                                                                                                     the industrial base it needs for national security, neither can a nation long
                                                                                                     survive if it cannot produce its own food. Presidential Policy Directive
                                                                                                     21 of February 12, 2013 (Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience),
                                                                                                     designates food and agriculture as a ‘‘critical infrastructure sector’’ because
                                                                                                     it is one of the sectors considered ‘‘so vital to the United States that [its]
                                                                                                     incapacity or destruction . . . would have a debilitating impact on security,
                                                                                                     national economic security, national public health or safety, or any combina-
                                                                                                     tion of those matters.’’ Furthermore, when I left office, the United States
                                                                                                     had a trade surplus in agricultural products, but today, that surplus has
                                                                                                     vanished. Eviscerated by a slew of new non-tariff barriers imposed by our
                                                                                                     trading partners, it has been replaced by a projected $49 billion annual
                                                                                                     agricultural trade deficit.
                                                                                                     For these reasons, I hereby declare and order:
                                                                                                     Section 1. National Emergency. As President of the United States, my highest
                                                                                                     duty is ensuring the national and economic security of the country and
                                                                                                     its citizens.
                                                                                                     I have declared a national emergency arising from conditions reflected in
                                                                                                     large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits, which have grown
                                                                                                     by over 40 percent in the past 5 years alone, reaching $1.2 trillion in
                                                                                                     2024. This trade deficit reflects asymmetries in trade relationships that have
                                                                                                     contributed to the atrophy of domestic production capacity, especially that
                                                                                                     of the U.S. manufacturing and defense-industrial base. These asymmetries
                                                                                                     also impact U.S. producers’ ability to export and, consequentially, their
                                                                                                     incentive to produce.
                                                                                                     Specifically, such asymmetry includes not only non-reciprocal differences
                                                                                                     in tariff rates among foreign trading partners, but also extensive use of
                                                                                                     non-tariff barriers by foreign trading partners, which reduce the competitive-
                                                                                                     ness of U.S. exports while artificially enhancing the competitiveness of
                                                                                                     their own goods. These non-tariff barriers include technical barriers to trade;
                                                                                                     non-scientific sanitary and phytosanitary rules; inadequate intellectual prop-
                                                                                                     erty protections; suppressed domestic consumption (e.g., wage suppression);
                                                                                                     weak labor, environmental, and other regulatory standards and protections;
                                                                                                     and corruption. These non-tariff barriers give rise to significant imbalances
                                                                                                     even when the United States and a trading partner have comparable tariff
                                                                                                     rates.
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                     The cumulative effect of these imbalances has been the transfer of resources
                                                                                                     from domestic producers to foreign firms, reducing opportunities for domestic
                                                                                                     manufacturers to expand and, in turn, leading to lost manufacturing jobs,
                                                                                                     diminished manufacturing capacity, and an atrophied industrial base, includ-
                                                                                                     ing in the defense-industrial sector. At the same time, foreign firms are
                                                                                                     better positioned to scale production, reinvest in innovation, and compete


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00006   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15045

                                                                                                     in the global economy, to the detriment of U.S. economic and national
                                                                                                     security.
                                                                                                     The absence of sufficient domestic manufacturing capacity in certain critical
                                                                                                     and advanced industrial sectors—another outcome of the large and persistent
                                                                                                     annual U.S. goods trade deficits—also compromises U.S. economic and na-
                                                                                                     tional security by rendering the U.S. economy less resilient to supply chain
                                                                                                     disruption. Finally, the large, persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits,
                                                                                                     and the concomitant loss of industrial capacity, have compromised military
                                                                                                     readiness; this vulnerability can only be redressed through swift corrective
                                                                                                     action to rebalance the flow of imports into the United States. Such impact
                                                                                                     upon military readiness and our national security posture is especially acute
                                                                                                     with the recent rise in armed conflicts abroad. I call upon the public and
                                                                                                     private sector to make the efforts necessary to strengthen the international
                                                                                                     economic position of the United States.
                                                                                                     Sec. 2. Reciprocal Tariff Policy. It is the policy of the United States to
                                                                                                     rebalance global trade flows by imposing an additional ad valorem duty
                                                                                                     on all imports from all trading partners except as otherwise provided herein.
                                                                                                     The additional ad valorem duty on all imports from all trading partners
                                                                                                     shall start at 10 percent and shortly thereafter, the additional ad valorem
                                                                                                     duty shall increase for trading partners enumerated in Annex I to this
                                                                                                     order at the rates set forth in Annex I to this order. These additional
                                                                                                     ad valorem duties shall apply until such time as I determine that the
                                                                                                     underlying conditions described above are satisfied, resolved, or mitigated.
                                                                                                     Sec. 3. Implementation. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this order,
                                                                                                     all articles imported into the customs territory of the United States shall
                                                                                                     be, consistent with law, subject to an additional ad valorem rate of duty
                                                                                                     of 10 percent. Such rates of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered
                                                                                                     for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or
                                                                                                     after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5, 2025, except that goods
                                                                                                     loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading and in transit on the final
                                                                                                     mode of transit before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5, 2025,
                                                                                                     and entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption
                                                                                                     after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5, 2025, shall not be subject
                                                                                                     to such additional duty.
                                                                                                     Furthermore, except as otherwise provided in this order, at 12:01 a.m. eastern
                                                                                                     daylight time on April 9, 2025, all articles from trading partners enumerated
                                                                                                     in Annex I to this order imported into the customs territory of the United
                                                                                                     States shall be, consistent with law, subject to the country-specific ad valorem
                                                                                                     rates of duty specified in Annex I to this order. Such rates of duty shall
                                                                                                     apply with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
                                                                                                     warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time
                                                                                                     on April 9, 2025, except that goods loaded onto a vessel at the port of
                                                                                                     loading and in transit on the final mode of transit before 12:01 a.m. eastern
                                                                                                     daylight time on April 9, 2025, and entered for consumption or withdrawn
                                                                                                     from warehouse for consumption after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
                                                                                                     April 9, 2025, shall not be subject to these country-specific ad valorem
                                                                                                     rates of duty set forth in Annex I to this order. These country-specific
                                                                                                     ad valorem rates of duty shall apply to all articles imported pursuant to
                                                                                                     the terms of all existing U.S. trade agreements, except as provided below.
                                                                                                        (b) The following goods as set forth in Annex II to this order, consistent
                                                                                                     with law, shall not be subject to the ad valorem rates of duty under this
                                                                                                     order: (i) all articles that are encompassed by 50 U.S.C. 1702(b); (ii) all
                                                                                                     articles and derivatives of steel and aluminum subject to the duties imposed
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                     pursuant to section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 and proclaimed
                                                                                                     in Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum
                                                                                                     Into the United States), as amended, Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018
                                                                                                     (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), as amended, and Procla-
                                                                                                     mation 9980 of January 24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum
                                                                                                     Articles and Derivative Steel Articles Into the United States), as amended,
                                                                                                     Proclamation 10895 of February 10, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00007   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15046                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                     Into the United States), and Proclamation 10896 of February 10, 2025 (Adjust-
                                                                                                     ing Imports of Steel into the United States); (iii) all automobiles and auto-
                                                                                                     motive parts subject to the additional duties imposed pursuant to section
                                                                                                     232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, and proclaimed
                                                                                                     in Proclamation 10908 of March 26, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of Automobiles
                                                                                                     and Automobile Parts Into the United States); (iv) other products enumerated
                                                                                                     in Annex II to this order, including copper, pharmaceuticals, semiconductors,
                                                                                                     lumber articles, certain critical minerals, and energy and energy products;
                                                                                                     (v) all articles from a trading partner subject to the rates set forth in Column
                                                                                                     2 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS); and
                                                                                                     (vi) all articles that may become subject to duties pursuant to future actions
                                                                                                     under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962.
                                                                                                       (c) The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to any
                                                                                                     other duties, fees, taxes, exactions, or charges applicable to such imported
                                                                                                     articles, except as provided in subsections (d) and (e) of this section below.
                                                                                                        (d) With respect to articles from Canada, I have imposed additional duties
                                                                                                     on certain goods to address a national emergency resulting from the flow
                                                                                                     of illicit drugs across our northern border pursuant to Executive Order
                                                                                                     14193 of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit
                                                                                                     Drugs Across Our Northern Border), as amended by Executive Order 14197
                                                                                                     of February 3, 2025 (Progress on the Situation at Our Northern Border),
                                                                                                     and Executive Order 14231 of March 2, 2025 (Amendment to Duties To
                                                                                                     Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border). With respect
                                                                                                     to articles from Mexico, I have imposed additional duties on certain goods
                                                                                                     to address a national emergency resulting from the flow of illicit drugs
                                                                                                     and illegal migration across our southern border pursuant to Executive Order
                                                                                                     14194 of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties To Address the Situation at
                                                                                                     Our Southern Border), as amended by Executive Order 14198 of February
                                                                                                     3, 2025 (Progress on the Situation at Our Southern Border), and Executive
                                                                                                     Order 14227 of March 2, 2025 (Amendment to Duties To Address the Situa-
                                                                                                     tion at Our Southern Border). As a result of these border emergency tariff
                                                                                                     actions, all goods of Canada or Mexico under the terms of general note
                                                                                                     11 to the HTSUS, including any treatment set forth in subchapter XXIII
                                                                                                     of chapter 98 and subchapter XXII of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, as related
                                                                                                     to the Agreement between the United States of America, United Mexican
                                                                                                     States, and Canada (USMCA), continue to be eligible to enter the U.S.
                                                                                                     market under these preferential terms. However, all goods of Canada or
                                                                                                     Mexico that do not qualify as originating under USMCA are presently subject
                                                                                                     to additional ad valorem duties of 25 percent, with energy or energy resources
                                                                                                     and potash imported from Canada and not qualifying as originating under
                                                                                                     USMCA presently subject to the lower additional ad valorem duty of 10
                                                                                                     percent.
                                                                                                       (e) Any ad valorem rate of duty on articles imported from Canada or
                                                                                                     Mexico under the terms of this order shall not apply in addition to the
                                                                                                     ad valorem rate of duty specified by the existing orders described in sub-
                                                                                                     section (d) of this section. If such orders identified in subsection (d) of
                                                                                                     this section are terminated or suspended, all items of Canada and Mexico
                                                                                                     that qualify as originating under USMCA shall not be subject to an additional
                                                                                                     ad valorem rate of duty, while articles not qualifying as originating under
                                                                                                     USMCA shall be subject to an ad valorem rate of duty of 12 percent.
                                                                                                     However, these ad valorem rates of duty on articles imported from Canada
                                                                                                     and Mexico shall not apply to energy or energy resources, to potash, or
                                                                                                     to an article eligible for duty-free treatment under USMCA that is a part
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                     or component of an article substantially finished in the United States.
                                                                                                        (f) More generally, the ad valorem rates of duty set forth in this order
                                                                                                     shall apply only to the non-U.S. content of a subject article, provided at
                                                                                                     least 20 percent of the value of the subject article is U.S. originating. For
                                                                                                     the purposes of this subsection, ‘‘U.S. content’’ refers to the value of an
                                                                                                     article attributable to the components produced entirely, or substantially
                                                                                                     transformed in, the United States. U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP),


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00008   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15047

                                                                                                     to the extent permitted by law, is authorized to require the collection of
                                                                                                     such information and documentation regarding an imported article, including
                                                                                                     with the entry filing, as is necessary to enable CBP to ascertain and verify
                                                                                                     the value of the U.S. content of the article, as well as to ascertain and
                                                                                                     verify whether an article is substantially finished in the United States.
                                                                                                       (g) Subject articles, except those eligible for admission under ‘‘domestic
                                                                                                     status’’ as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, which are subject to the duty specified
                                                                                                     in section 2 of this order and are admitted into a foreign trade zone on
                                                                                                     or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9, 2025, must be admitted
                                                                                                     as ‘‘privileged foreign status’’ as defined in 19 CFR 146.41.
                                                                                                       (h) Duty-free de minimis treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(A)-(B) shall
                                                                                                     remain available for the articles described in subsection (a) of this section.
                                                                                                     Duty-free de minimis treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) shall remain
                                                                                                     available for the articles described in subsection (a) of this section until
                                                                                                     notification by the Secretary of Commerce to the President that adequate
                                                                                                     systems are in place to fully and expeditiously process and collect duty
                                                                                                     revenue applicable pursuant to this subsection for articles otherwise eligible
                                                                                                     for de minimis treatment. After such notification, duty-free de minimis treat-
                                                                                                     ment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) shall not be available for the articles
                                                                                                     described in subsection (a) of this section.
                                                                                                        (i) The Executive Order of April 2, 2025 (Further Amendment to Duties
                                                                                                     Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic
                                                                                                     of China as Applied to Low-Value Imports), regarding low-value imports
                                                                                                     from China is not affected by this order, and all duties and fees with
                                                                                                     respect to covered articles shall be collected as required and detailed therein.
                                                                                                       (j) To reduce the risk of transshipment and evasion, all ad valorem rates
                                                                                                     of duty imposed by this order or any successor orders with respect to
                                                                                                     articles of China shall apply equally to articles of both the Hong Kong
                                                                                                     Special Administrative Region and the Macau Special Administrative Region.
                                                                                                       (k) In order to establish the duty rates described in this order, the HTSUS
                                                                                                     is modified as set forth in the Annexes to this order. These modifications
                                                                                                     shall enter into effect on the dates set forth in the Annexes to this order.
                                                                                                        (l) Unless specifically noted herein, any prior Presidential Proclamation,
                                                                                                     Executive Order, or other Presidential directive or guidance related to trade
                                                                                                     with foreign trading partners that is inconsistent with the direction in this
                                                                                                     order is hereby terminated, suspended, or modified to the extent necessary
                                                                                                     to give full effect to this order.
                                                                                                     Sec. 4. Modification Authority. (a) The Secretary of Commerce and the
                                                                                                     United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of
                                                                                                     State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
                                                                                                     the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor
                                                                                                     for Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for National
                                                                                                     Security Affairs, shall recommend to me additional action, if necessary,
                                                                                                     if this action is not effective in resolving the emergency conditions described
                                                                                                     above, including the increase in the overall trade deficit or the recent expan-
                                                                                                     sion of non-reciprocal trade arrangements by U.S. trading partners in a
                                                                                                     manner that threatens the economic and national security interests of the
                                                                                                     United States.
                                                                                                        (b) Should any trading partner retaliate against the United States in re-
                                                                                                     sponse to this action through import duties on U.S. exports or other measures,
                                                                                                     I may further modify the HTSUS to increase or expand in scope the duties
                                                                                                     imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this action.
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                       (c) Should any trading partner take significant steps to remedy non-recip-
                                                                                                     rocal trade arrangements and align sufficiently with the United States on
                                                                                                     economic and national security matters, I may further modify the HTSUS
                                                                                                     to decrease or limit in scope the duties imposed under this order.
                                                                                                       (d) Should U.S. manufacturing capacity and output continue to worsen,
                                                                                                     I may further modify the HTSUS to increase duties under this order.


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00009   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15048                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                     Sec. 5. Implementation Authority. The Secretary of Commerce and the United
                                                                                                     States Trade Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of State,
                                                                                                     the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Assist-
                                                                                                     ant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade
                                                                                                     and Manufacturing, the Assistant to the President for National Security
                                                                                                     Affairs, and the Chair of the International Trade Commission are hereby
                                                                                                     authorized to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as
                                                                                                     may be necessary to implement this order. Each executive department and
                                                                                                     agency shall take all appropriate measures within its authority to implement
                                                                                                     this order.
                                                                                                     Sec. 6. Reporting Requirements. The United States Trade Representative,
                                                                                                     in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury,
                                                                                                     the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Assistant
                                                                                                     to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and
                                                                                                     Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for National Security
                                                                                                     Affairs, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the
                                                                                                     Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with
                                                                                                     section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA
                                                                                                     (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
                                                                                                     Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                     to impair or otherwise affect:
                                                                                                        (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or
                                                                                                        the head thereof; or
                                                                                                        (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
                                                                                                        relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
                                                                                                       (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
                                                                                                     subject to the availability of appropriations.
                                                                                                       (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
                                                                                                     substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
                                                                                                     against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
                                                                                                     employees, or agents, or any other person.
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                     THE WHITE HOUSE,
                                                                                                     April 2, 2025.


                                                 Billing code 3395–F4–P
                                                                                                                                                                                        Trump.EPS</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00010   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15049

                                                                                                                                                    ANNEXI
                                                                                       Country                                                       Reciprocal Tariff,
                                                                                                                                                     Adjusted

                                                                                       Algeria                                                                30%
                                                                                       Angola                                                                 32%
                                                                                       Bangladesh                                                             37%
                                                                                       Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                 35%
                                                                                       Botswana                                                               37%
                                                                                       Brunei                                                                 24%
                                                                                       Cambodia                                                               49%
                                                                                       Cameroon                                                               11%
                                                                                       Chad                                                                   13%
                                                                                       China                                                                  34%
                                                                                       Cote d'Ivoire                                                          21%
                                                                                       Democratic Republic of the Congo                                       11%
                                                                                       Equatorial Guinea                                                      13%
                                                                                       European Union                                                         20%
                                                                                       Falkland Islands                                                       41%
                                                                                       Fiji                                                                   32%
                                                                                       Guyana                                                                 38%
                                                                                       India                                                                  26%
                                                                                       Indonesia                                                              32%
                                                                                       Iraq                                                                   39%
                                                                                       Israel                                                                 17%
                                                                                       Japan                                                                  24%
                                                                                       Jordan                                                                 20%
                                                                                       Kazakhstan                                                             27%
                                                                                       Laos                                                                   48%
                                                                                       Lesotho                                                                50%
                                                                                       Libya                                                                  31%
                                                                                       Liechtenstein                                                          37%
                                                                                       Madagascar                                                             47%
                                                                                       Malawi                                                                 17%
                                                                                       Malaysia                                                               24%
                                                                                       Mauritius                                                              40%
                                                                                       Moldova                                                                31%
                                                                                       Mozambique                                                             16%
                                                                                       Myanmar (Burma)                                                        44%
                                                                                       Namibia                                                                21%
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.024</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00011   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15050                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                                   Country                                                           Reciprocal Tariff,
                                                                                                                                                     Adjusted

                                                                                   Nauru                                                                        30%
                                                                                   Nicaragua                                                                    18%
                                                                                   Nigeria                                                                      14%
                                                                                   North Macedonia                                                              33%
                                                                                   Norway                                                                       15%
                                                                                   Pakistan                                                                     29%
                                                                                   Philippines                                                                  17%
                                                                                   Serbia                                                                       37%
                                                                                   South Africa                                                                 30%
                                                                                   South Korea                                                                  25%
                                                                                   Sri Lanka                                                                    44%
                                                                                   Switzerland                                                                  31%
                                                                                   Syria                                                                        41%
                                                                                   Taiwan                                                                       32%
                                                                                   Thailand                                                                     36%
                                                                                   Tunisia                                                                      28%
                                                                                   Vanuatu                                                                      22%
                                                                                   Venezuela                                                                    15%
                                                                                   Vietnam                                                                      46%
                                                                                   Zambia                                                                       17%
                                                                                   Zimbabwe                                                                     18%
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.025</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00012   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                        Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                           15051

                                                                                                                             ANNEX II
                                                                  Note: All products that are classified in the 8-digit subheadings of the Harmonized Tariff
                                                                  Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) that are listed in this Annex are covered by the action.
                                                                  The product descriptions that are contained in this Annex are provided for informational
                                                                  purposes only, and are not intended to delimit in any way the scope of the action. In all cases, the
                                                                  formal language in Annex III governs the tariff treatment of products covered by the action. Any
                                                                  questions regarding the scope of particular HTSUS subheadings should be referred to U.S.
                                                                  Customs and Border Protection. In the product descriptions, the abbreviation "nesoi" means "not
                                                                  elsewhere specified or included".

                                                                   HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Coral, shells, cuttlebone and similar materials, unworked or simply prepared, but not
                                                                   05080000              cut to shape; powder and waste thereof
                                                                   25041050               Natural graphite, in powder or flakes (other than crystalline flake)
                                                                   25049000               Natural graphite, other than in powder or in flakes
                                                                   25101000               Natural calcium phosphates, natural aluminum calcium phosphates, unground
                                                                   25102000               Natural calcium phosphates, natural aluminum
                                                                   25111010               Natural barium sulfate (barytes), ground
                                                                   25111050               Natural barium sulfate (barytes), not ground
                                                                   25191000              Natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite)
                                                                                         Fused magnesia; dead-burned (sintered) magnesia, whether or not cont. small
                                                                   25199010              quant. of other oxides added before sintering
                                                                   25199020              Caustic calcined magnesite
                                                                   25249000              Asbestos other than Crocidolite
                                                                   25292100               Fluorspar, containing by weight 97 percent or less of calcium fluoride
                                                                   25292200               Fluorspar, containing by weight more than 97 percent of calcium fluoride
                                                                   25302010               Kieserite
                                                                   25302020               Epsom salts (natural magnesium sulfates)
                                                                   25309010               Natural cryolite; natural chiolite
                                                                   25309020               Natural micaceous iron oxides
                                                                   25309080              Other mineral substances, not elsewhere specified or included
                                                                                         Manganese ores and concentrates including ferruginous manganese ores &
                                                                   26020000              concentrates, with manganese content over 20%, calculated on dry weight
                                                                   26030000              Copper ores and concentrates
                                                                   26050000              Cobalt ores and concentrates
                                                                   26060000              Aluminum ores and concentrates
                                                                   26080000              Zinc ores and concentrates
                                                                   26100000              Chromium ores and concentrates
                                                                   26110030              Tungsten ores
                                                                   26110060              Tungsten concentrates
                                                                   26121000               Uranium ores and concentrates
                                                                   26140030              Synthetic rutile

                                                                                                                                       1
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                              ED07AP25.026</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014    18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00013   Fmt 4705       Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15052                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  26140060              Titanium ores and concentrates, other than synthetic rutile
                                                                  26159030               Synthetic tantalum-niobium concentrates
                                                                  26159060               Niobium, tantalum or vanadium ores and concentrates, nesoi
                                                                  26161000               Silver ores and concentrates
                                                                  26171000               Antimony ores and concentrates
                                                                                         Ash and residues (other than from the manufacture of iron or steel), containing
                                                                  26203000               mainly copper
                                                                                         Slag (other than from the manufacture of iron or steel), containing by weight over
                                                                                         40% titanium, and which if containing over 2% by weight of copper, lead, or zinc is
                                                                  26209950               not to be treated for the recovery thereof
                                                                  27011100               Coal, anthracite, whether or not pulverized, but not agglomerated
                                                                  27011200               Coal, bituminous, whether or not pulverized, but not agglomerated
                                                                                         Coal, other than anthracite or bituminous, whether or not pulverized, but not
                                                                  27011900               agglomerated
                                                                  27012000               Coal, briquettes, ovoids and similar solid fuels manufactured from coal
                                                                  27021000               Lignite (excluding jet), whether or not pulverized, but not agglomerated
                                                                  27022000               Lignite (excluding jet), agglomerated
                                                                  27030000              Peat (including peat litter), whether or not agglomerated
                                                                                        Coke and semicoke of coal, lignite or peat, whether or not agglomerated; retort
                                                                  27040000              carbon
                                                                                        Coal gas, water gas, producer gas and similar gases, other than petroleum gases and
                                                                  27050000              other gaseous hydrocarbons
                                                                                        Tars (including reconstituted tars), distilled from coal, lignite or peat, and other
                                                                  27060000              mineral tars, whether dehydrated or partially distilled
                                                                                        Benzene, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or in which the weight of
                                                                  27071000              the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents
                                                                                        Toluene, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or in which the weight of
                                                                  27072000              aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents
                                                                                        Xylenes, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or in which the weight of
                                                                  27073000              the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents
                                                                                        Naphthalene, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar, or in which the
                                                                  27074000              weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents
                                                                                        Aromatic hydrocarbon mixtures (from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar,
                                                                                        or similar products in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of
                                                                                        the nonaromatic constituents), other than Benzene, Toluene, Xylenes, and
                                                                                        Naphathalene, in which 65% or more by volume (including losses) distills at 250 C by
                                                                  27075000              the ISO 3405 method (equivalent to the ASTM D 86 method)
                                                                                        Creosote oils, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in
                                                                                        which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic
                                                                  27079100              constituents
                                                                                        Light oil, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in
                                                                                        which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic
                                                                  27079910              constituents



                                                                                                                                  2
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                   ED07AP25.027</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00014   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                         15053


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Picolines, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in
                                                                                         which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic
                                                                  27079920               constituents
                                                                                         Carbazole, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in
                                                                                         which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic
                                                                  27079940               constituents, having a purity of 65% or more by weight
                                                                                         Phenols, from the distillation of high-temperature coal tar or similar products in
                                                                                         which the weight of aromatic constituents exceeds that of nonaromatic constituents,
                                                                  27079951               containing more than 50% by weight of hydroxybenzene
                                                                                         Metacresol, orthocresol, paracresol, and metaparacresol, from the distillation of
                                                                                         high-temperature coal tar or similar products where the weight of the aromatic
                                                                                         constituents exceeds that of the nonaromatic constituents, having a purity of 75% or
                                                                  27079955               more by weight
                                                                  27079959               Phenols, nesoi
                                                                                         Other products of the distillation of high-temperature coal tar and similar products
                                                                                         in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceed that of the nonaromatic
                                                                  27079990               constituents, nesoi
                                                                  27081000               Pitch, obtained from coal tar or other mineral tars
                                                                  27082000               Pitch coke, obtained from coal tar or other mineral tars
                                                                                         Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals, crude, testing under 25 degrees
                                                                  27090010               A.P.I.
                                                                                         Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals, crude, testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or
                                                                  27090020               more
                                                                                         Light oil motor fuel from petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals (other
                                                                                         than crude) and containing by weight 70% or more of petroleum oils or oils from
                                                                  27101215               bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Light oil motor fuel blending stock from petroleum oils and oils from bituminous
                                                                                         minerals (other than crude) containing by weight 70% or more from petroleum oils
                                                                  27101218               or oils from bituminous minerals
                                                                  27101225               Naphthas (except motor fuel or motor fuel blending stock)
                                                                                         Light oil mixtures of hydrocarbons nesoi which contain by weight not over 50% of
                                                                  27101245               any single hydrocarbon compound
                                                                                         Light oils and preparations, from petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals or
                                                                                         preparations nesoi containing by weight 70% or more of petroleum oils or oils
                                                                  27101290               obtained from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended fuel oils), derived from petroleum
                                                                  27101906               or oils from bituminous minerals, testing< 25 degrees A.P.I.
                                                                                         Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended fuel oils), derived from petroleum
                                                                  27101911               oils or oils from bituminous minerals, testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or>
                                                                                         Kerosene-type jet fuel, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other
                                                                                         than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils
                                                                  27101916               obtained from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Kerosene motor fuel (except kerosene-type jet fuel), from petroleum oils and oils of
                                                                                         bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+
                                                                  27101924               of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals

                                                                                                                                  3
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                           ED07AP25.028</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00015   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15054                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Kerosene motor fuel blending stock (except kerosene-type jet fuel), from petroleum
                                                                                         oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by
                                                                  27101925               weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Kerosene (except kerosene-type jet fuel, kerosene motor fuel, and kerosene motor
                                                                                         fuel blending stock), from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than
                                                                                         crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained
                                                                  27101926               from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Lubricating oils, with or without additives, from petroleum oils and oils of
                                                                                         bituminous minerals (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+
                                                                  27101930               of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Lubricating greases, containing not over 10% by weight of salts of fatty acids of
                                                                                         animal or vegetable origin, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals
                                                                                         (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or
                                                                  27101935               oils obtained from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Lubricating greases, containing 10% or more by weight of salts of fatty acids of
                                                                                         animal or vegetable origin, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals
                                                                                         (other than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or
                                                                  27101940               oils obtained from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Mixture of hydrocarbons nesoi, which contain by weight not over 50% of any single
                                                                                         hydrocarbon compound, from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other
                                                                                         than crude) or preparations containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils
                                                                  27101945               obtained from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Petroleum oils and oils from bituminous minerals or preparations nesoi containing
                                                                  27101990               by weight 70% or more of petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals
                                                                                         Distillate and residual fuel oils (including blended fuel oils), testing under 25 degrees
                                                                                         A.P.I., from petroleum oils and oils of bituminous minerals (other than crude) or
                                                                                         preparations nesoi containing by weight 70%+ of petroleum oils or oils obtained
                                                                  27102005               from bituminous minerals, containing biodiesel, other than waste oils
                                                                                         Dist and resid fuel oil (including blends) derived from petro or oils fr bitum min
                                                                  27102010               testing 25 degree A.P.I. or>, contng biodiesel
                                                                                         Kerosene-type jet fuel/mtr ful/mtr ful blend stck fr pet oils & bitumin min (o/th
                                                                  27102015               crude), or preps. 70%+ by w fr pet oils, ctg biodiesel
                                                                                         Kerosene (ex jet fuel,mtr ful/mtr ful blend stck/jet), fr pet oils and bitumin. min (o/th
                                                                  27102025               crude) or preps 70%+ by wt fr pet oils, ctg biodie
                                                                                         Waste oils from petro oils/bitum minerals/preps 70%+ by wt. fr. petro oils/bitum
                                                                  27109100               minerals containing PCBs, PCTs or PBBs
                                                                                         Wastes of distillate and residual fuel oil (including blends) derived from petroleum
                                                                  27109905               oil/bituminous minerals, testing under 25 degree A.P.I.
                                                                                         Wastes of distillate and residual fuel oil (including blends) derived from petroleum
                                                                  27109910               oil/bituminous minerals, testing 25 degrees A.P.I. or>
                                                                                         Waste motor fuel or motor fuel blending stock from petro oils and bitumin. minerals
                                                                  27109916               (o/than crude) or preps. 70%+ by wt. from petro oils
                                                                                         Waste kerosene or naphthas from petro oils and bitumin minerals (o/than crude) or
                                                                  27109921               preps. 70%+ by wt. From petro oils/bitumin minerals




                                                                                                                                  4
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                     ED07AP25.029</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00016   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15055


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Waste lubricating oils, w/or w/o additives, from petro oils and bitumin minerals
                                                                  27109931               (o/than crude) or preps. 70%+ by wt. from petro oils
                                                                                         Waste lubricating greases from petro oil/bitum min/70%+ by wt. fr petro oils but n/o
                                                                  27109932               10% by wt. of fatty acid salts animal/vegetable origin
                                                                                         Waste lubricating greases from petro oil/bitum min/70%+ by wt. fr petro oils but
                                                                  27109939               over 10% by wt. of fatty acid salts animal/vegetable origin
                                                                                         Waste mixtures of hydrocarbons from petro oils & bitum. min. or preps.70%+ by wt.
                                                                  27109945               fr. petro oils, nesoi, n/o 50% any single hydrocarbon
                                                                                         Waste petroleum oils & oils from bitum. min. or preps nesoi 70%+ by wt. from petro.
                                                                  27109990               oils or bitum. min., nesoi
                                                                  27111100               Natural gas, liquefied
                                                                  27111200               Propane, liquefied
                                                                  27111300               Butanes, liquefied
                                                                  27111400               Ethylene, propylene, butylene and butadiene, liquefied
                                                                  27111900               Liquefied petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons, nesoi
                                                                  27112100               Natural gas, in gaseous state
                                                                  27112900               Petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons, except natural gas
                                                                  27121000               Petroleum jelly
                                                                                         Paraffin wax (whether or not colored), obtained by synthesis or other process and
                                                                  27122000               less than 0.75% oil by wt.
                                                                  27129010               Montan wax (whether or not colored), obtained by synthesis or other process
                                                                                         Mineral waxes (i.e.,paraffin w/0.75%+ oil, microcrystal!. wax, slack lignite & peat
                                                                  27129020               waxes, ozokerite), obtained by synthesis
                                                                  27131100               Coke, petroleum, not calcined
                                                                  27131200               Coke, petroleum coke, calcined
                                                                  27132000               Petroleum bitumen
                                                                                         Residues (except petroleum coke or petroleum bitumen) of petroleum oils or of oils
                                                                  27139000               obtained from bituminous materials
                                                                  27141000               Bituminous or oil shale and tar sands
                                                                  27149000               Bitumen and asphalt, natural; asphaltites and asphaltic rocks
                                                                                         Bituminous mixtures based on natural asphalt, natural bitumen, petroleum bitumen,
                                                                  27150000               mineral tar or mineral tar pitch
                                                                  27160000               Electrical energy
                                                                  28012000               Iodine
                                                                  28042900               Rare gases, other than argon
                                                                  28045000               Boron; tellurium
                                                                  28046100               Silicon containing by weight not less than 99.99 percent of silicon
                                                                  28048000               Arsenic
                                                                  28049000               Selenium
                                                                  28051910               Strontium
                                                                  28051920               Barium
                                                                  28051990               Alkali metals, other than sodium


                                                                                                                                  5
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.030</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00017   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15056                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  28053000               Rare-earth metals, scandium and yttrium, whether or not intermixed or interalloyed
                                                                  28111100               Hydrogen fluoride (Hydrofluoric acid)
                                                                  28111910               Arsenic acid
                                                                  28112910               Arsenic trioxide
                                                                  28112920               Selenium dioxide
                                                                  28121900               Other chlorides and chloride oxides
                                                                  28139010               Arsenic sulfides
                                                                  28152000               Potassium hydroxide (Caustic potash)
                                                                  28161000               Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium
                                                                  28164010               Oxides, hydroxides and peroxides of strontium
                                                                  28164020               Oxides, hydroxides and peroxides of barium
                                                                  28170000               Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide
                                                                  28181010               Artificial corundum, crude
                                                                  28181020               Artificial corundum, in grains, or ground, pulverized or refined
                                                                  28182000               Aluminum oxide, other than artificial corundum
                                                                  28183000               Aluminum hydroxide
                                                                  28201000               Manganese dioxide
                                                                  28211000               Iron oxides and hydroxides
                                                                                         Earth colors containing 70 percent or more by weight of combined iron evaluated as
                                                                  28212000               Fe2O3
                                                                  28220000               Cobalt oxides and hydroxides; commercial cobalt oxides
                                                                  28230000              Titanium oxides
                                                                  28252000               Lithium oxide and hydroxide
                                                                  28255030               Copper hydroxides
                                                                  28256000               Germanium oxides and zirconium dioxide
                                                                  28258000               Antimony oxides
                                                                  28259015               Niobium oxide
                                                                  28259030              Tungsten oxides
                                                                  28259090               Other inorganic bases; other metal oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, nesoi
                                                                  28261200               Fluorides of aluminum
                                                                  28263000               Sodium hexafluoroaluminate (Synthetic cryolite)
                                                                  28269090               Other complex fluorine salts, nesoi
                                                                  28273100               Magnesium chloride
                                                                  28273945               Barium chloride
                                                                  28273960               Cobalt chlorides
                                                                  28273990               Chlorides, nesoi
                                                                  28274100               Chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides of copper
                                                                  28274950               Chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides other than of copper or of vanadium
                                                                  28275951               Other bromides and bromide oxides, other than ammonium, calcium or zinc
                                                                  28276010               Iodide and iodide oxide of calcium or copper


                                                                                                                                  6
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.031</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00018   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15057


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  28276051               Iodides and iodide oxides, other than of calcium, copper or potassium
                                                                  28332100               Magnesium sulfate
                                                                  28332500               Copper sulfate
                                                                  28332700               Barium sulfate
                                                                  28332910               Cobalt sulfate
                                                                  28332945               Zinc sulfate
                                                                  28332951               Other sulfates nesoi
                                                                  28342100               Potassium nitrate
                                                                  28342920               Strontium nitrate
                                                                  28342951               Nitrates, nesoi
                                                                  28366000               Barium carbonate
                                                                  28369100               Lithium carbonates
                                                                  28369200               Strontium carbonate
                                                                  28369910               Cobalt carbonates
                                                                  28369950               Carbonates nesoi, and peroxocarbonates (percarbonates)
                                                                  28418000              Tungstates (wolframates)
                                                                  28419020               Ammonium perrhenate
                                                                  28419040               Aluminates
                                                                  28432901               Silver compounds, other than silver nitrate
                                                                  28433000               Gold compounds
                                                                                         Inorganic or organic compounds of precious metals, excluding those of silver and
                                                                  28439000               gold; amalgams of precious metals
                                                                  28441010               Natural uranium metal
                                                                  28441020               Natural uranium compounds
                                                                                         Uranium enriched in U235 and plutonium and their compounds; alloys, dispersions,
                                                                  28442000               ceramic products and mixtures containing these products
                                                                  28443020               Compounds of uranium depleted in U235
                                                                                         Uranium depleted in U235, thorium; alloys, dispersions, ceramic products and
                                                                  28443050               mixtures of these products and their compounds
                                                                                         Other radioactive elements, isotopes, compounds, nesoi; alloys, dispersions, ceramic
                                                                  28444300               products and mixtures thereof
                                                                                         Isotopes not in heading 2844 and their compounds other than boron, lithium and
                                                                  28459001               helium
                                                                  28461000               Cerium compounds
                                                                  28469020               Mixtures of rare-earth oxides or of rare-earth chlorides
                                                                                         Yttrium materials and compounds containing by wt. >19% But< 85% yttrium oxide
                                                                  28469040               equivalent
                                                                                         Compounds, inorganic or organic, of rare-earth metals, of yttrium or of scandium, or
                                                                  28469080               of mixtures of these metals, nesoi
                                                                  28492010               Silicon carbide, crude
                                                                  28492020               Silicon carbide, in grains, or ground, pulverized or refined


                                                                                                                                  7
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.032</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00019   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15058                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  28499030              Tungsten carbide
                                                                                        Phosphor copper containing more than 15% by weight of phosphorus, excluding
                                                                  28539010              ferrosphosphorus
                                                                  28539090               Other phosphides, excl ferrophosphorous, nesoi
                                                                  29034510               1,2,1,2-Tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134a) and 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134)
                                                                  29035990               Other unsaturated fluorinated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons
                                                                  29036990               Other brominated or iodinated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons
                                                                  29037800               Other perhalogenated acyclic hydrocarbon derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Other halogenated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons containing two or more
                                                                  29037990               different halogens, nesoi
                                                                                         Halogenated products derived in whole or in part from benzene or other aromatic
                                                                  29038915               hydrocarbon, described in additional U.S. note 3 to sec. VI
                                                                                         Halogenated derivatives derived in whole or in part from benzene or other aromatic
                                                                  29038920               hydrocarbon, nesoi
                                                                                         Other halogenated derivatives of cyclanic etc hydrocarbons not deriv from benzene
                                                                  29038970               or other aromatic hydrocarbons
                                                                                         Hexachlorobenzene (ISO) and DDT (clofenatone (INN), (l,1,1-Trichloro-2,2-bis(p-
                                                                  29039200               chlorophenyl)ethane))
                                                                                         Sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of aromatic products described in
                                                                  29049940               additional US note 3 to section 6
                                                                  29052990               Unsaturated monohydric alcohols, other than allyl alcohol or acyclic terpene alcohols
                                                                  29053990               Dihydric alcohols (diols), nesoi
                                                                  29055910               Halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of monohydric alcohols
                                                                  29055990               Halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of acyclic alcohols, nesoi
                                                                                         Other cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic alcohols and their halogenated, sulfonated,
                                                                  29061950               nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
                                                                                         Other aromatic alcohols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                                                                  29062960               derivatives
                                                                  29072990               Other polyphenols, nesoi
                                                                                         Other halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of phenol or
                                                                  29081960               phenol-alcohols
                                                                  29091918               Ethers of acyc monohydric alcohols & deriv, nesoi
                                                                                         Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic ethers and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated
                                                                  29092000               or nitrosated derivatives
                                                                                         Other aromatic ethers and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated, or nitrosated
                                                                  29093060               derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Other aromatic ether-alcohols, their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                                                                  29094910               derivatives described in add. US note 3 to section VI
                                                                                         Aromatic ether-alcohols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or nitrosated
                                                                  29094915               derivatives, nesoi
                                                                  29094920               Nonaromatic glycerol ethers
                                                                                         Other non-aromatic ether-alcohols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or
                                                                  29094960               nitrosated derivatives


                                                                                                                                  8
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                  ED07AP25.033</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00020   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15059


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Odoriferous or flavoring compounds of ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols & their
                                                                  29095040               halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated, nitrosated derivatives
                                                                                         Ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols & their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated,
                                                                  29095045               nitrosated derivatives nesoi, in add. U.S. note 3 to sec. VI
                                                                                         Ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols and their halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated or
                                                                  29095050               nitrosated derivatives, nesoi
                                                                  29121950               Acyclic aldehydes without other oxygen function, nesoi
                                                                                         Other aromatic aldehyde-alcohols, aldehyde-ethers, aldehyde-phenols and
                                                                  29124926               aldehydes with other oxygen function
                                                                  29141900               Acyclic ketones without other oxygen function, nesoi
                                                                  29144090               Nonaromatic ketone-alcohols and ketone-aldehydes, nesoi
                                                                  29145030               Aromatic ketone-phenols and ketones with other oxygen function
                                                                  29145050               Nonaromatic ketone-phenols and ketones with other oxygen function
                                                                  29146200               Coenzyme QlO (ubidecarenone (INN)
                                                                  29146921               Quinone drugs
                                                                  29146990               Quinones, nesoi
                                                                                         Other halogenated, sulfonated, nitrated, etc derivatives of aromatic ketones and
                                                                  29147940               quinones whether or not with other oxygen function
                                                                  29152930               Cobalt acetates
                                                                  29153931               Aromatic esters of acetic acid described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                  29153935               Aromatic esters of acetic acid, nesoi
                                                                  29153947               Acetates of polyhydric alcohols or of polyhydric alcohol ethers
                                                                  29153990               Other non-aromatic esters of acetic acid
                                                                  29159010               Fatty acids of animal or vegetable origin, nesoi
                                                                  29159014               Valproic acid
                                                                  29159018               Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids, of saturated acyclic
                                                                  29159020               monocarboxylic acids, and their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Nonaromatic an hydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids, of saturated acyclic
                                                                  29159050               monocarboxylic acids, and their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                  29161930               Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, nesoi
                                                                                         Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acid anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids
                                                                  29161950               and their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides,
                                                                  29162050               peroxides, peroxyacids and their derivatives
                                                                  29163150               Benzoic acid esters, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids
                                                                  29163946               and derivatives described in add'I US note 3 to section VI
                                                                                         Other aromatic monocarboxylic acids, their an hydrides, halides, peroxides,
                                                                  29163979               peroxyacids and their derivatives
                                                                  29171300               Azelaic acid, sebacic acid, their salts and esters
                                                                  29171910               Ferrous fumarate


                                                                                                                                  9
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.034</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00021   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15060                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  29171970               Acyclic polycarboxylic acids and derivative (excluding plasticizers)
                                                                  29173401               Esters of orthophthalic acid, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic polycarboxylic acids, their an hydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and
                                                                  29173930               their derivatives nesoi, in add. U.S. note 3 to sec. VI
                                                                  29181151               Salts and esters of lactic acid
                                                                  29181350               Salts and esters of tartaric acid, nesoi
                                                                  29181650               Salts and esters of gluconic acid
                                                                  29181960               Malic acid
                                                                                         Nonaromatic carboxylic acids with alcohol function, without other oxygen function,
                                                                  29181990               and their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                  29182210               O-Acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin)
                                                                  29182250               Salts and esters Of O-acetylsalicylic acid
                                                                  29182330               Esters of salicylic acid and their salts, described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                  29182350               Esters of salicylic acid and their salts, nesoi
                                                                  29182920               Gentisic acid; and hydroxycinnamic acid and its salts
                                                                                         Carboxylic acids with phenol function but w/o other oxygen function, described in
                                                                  29182965               add'I. U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                                         Other carboxylic acids w/phenol function but w/o other oxygen function & their
                                                                  29182975               derivatives (excluding goods of add. US note 3 to section VI)
                                                                                         Aromatic carboxylic acids w/aldehyde or ketone function but w/o other oxygen
                                                                  29183025               function & their deriv desc. in add US note 3 to sec VI, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic carboxylic acids with aldehyde or ketone function, but without other
                                                                  29183030               oxygen function, and derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Non-aromatic carboxylic acids w/aldehyde or ketone function but w/o other oxygen
                                                                  29183090               tune. their an hydrides, halides, peroxides, etc derivatives
                                                                                         Aromatic drugs derived from carboxylic acids with additional oxygen function, and
                                                                  29189930               their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic carboxylic acids with add'I oxygen function and their an hydrides, halide,
                                                                  29189943               etc deriv described in add US note 3 to sect VI, nesoi
                                                                                         Other aromatic carboxylic acids with add'I oxygen function and their anhydrides,
                                                                  29189947               halide, etc deriv (exclud goods in add US note 3 to sec VI)
                                                                                         Nonaromatic carboxylic acids with additional oxygen function, and their derivatives,
                                                                  29189950               nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic phosphoric esters and their salts, including lactophosphates, and their
                                                                  29199030               derivatives, not used as plasticizers
                                                                                         Nonaromatic phosphoric esters and their salts, including lactophosphates, and their
                                                                  29199050               derivatives
                                                                                         Nonaromatic esters of inorganic acids of nonmetals and their salts and derivatives,
                                                                  29209051               excluding esters of hydrogen halides, nesoi
                                                                                         Mono- and triethylamines; mono-, di-, and tri(propyl- and butyl-) monoamines; salts
                                                                  29211911               of any of the foregoing
                                                                                         N,N-Dialkyl (methyl, ethyl, N-Propyl or lsopropyl)-2-Chloroethylamines and their
                                                                  29211961               protonated salts; Acylcic monoamines and their derivatives, nesoi



                                                                                                                                  10
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                       ED07AP25.035</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00022   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15061


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Acyclic polyamines, their derivatives and salts, other than ethylenediamine or
                                                                  29212900               hexamethylenediamine and their salts
                                                                                         Cyclanic, cyclenic, cycloterpenic mono- or polyamines, derivatives and salts, from
                                                                  29213010               any aromatic compound desc in add US note 3, sec. VI
                                                                                         Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic mono- or polyamines, and their derivatives and
                                                                  29213050               salts, from any nonaromatic compounds
                                                                  29214290               Other aniline derivatives and their salts
                                                                                         Amfetamine {INN), benzfetamine {INN), dexamfetamine {INN), etilamfetamine {INN),
                                                                  29214600               and other specified INNs; salts thereof
                                                                                         Aromatic monoamine antidepressants, tranquilizers and other psychotherapeutic
                                                                  29214938               agents, nesoi
                                                                  29214943               Aromatic monoamine drugs, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic monoamines and their derivatives nesoi; salts thereof, described in
                                                                  29214945               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                  29214950               Aromatic monoamines and their derivatives and salts thereof, nesoi
                                                                  29215980               Aromatic polyamines and their derivatives; salts thereof nesoi
                                                                  29221100               Monoethanolamine and its salts
                                                                  29221400               Dextropropoxyphene (INN) and its salts
                                                                                         Aromatic amino-alcohols drugs, their ethers and esters, other than those containing
                                                                  29221909               > one kind of oxygen function; salts thereof; nesoi
                                                                                         4,4'-Bis(dimethylamino)benzhydrol (Michler's hydrol) and other specified aromatic
                                                                  29221920               amino-alcohols, their ethers and esters; salts thereof
                                                                                         N1-(2-Hyd roxyethyl-2-n itro-1,4-phenylendia mine; N1, N4, N4-tris(2-hydroxyethyl)-2-
                                                                  29221933               nitro-1,4-phenylenediamine; and other specified chemicals
                                                                                         Aromatic amino-alcohols, their ethers and esters, other than those containing more
                                                                  29221960               than one oxy tune described in add. US note 3 to sect VI
                                                                                         Other aromatic amino-alcohols, their ethers & esters, other than those contain more
                                                                  29221970               than one oxy tune (exc goods of add. US note 3 sect VI)
                                                                  29221990               Salts oftriethanolamine
                                                                                         Amino-alcohols, other than those containing more than one kind of oxygen function,
                                                                  29221996               their ethers and esters and salts thereof, nesoi
                                                                                         Drugs of amino-naphthols and -phenols, their ethers and esters, except those cont.
                                                                  29222927               more than one oxygen function; salts thereof, nesoi
                                                                                         Amino-naphthols and other amino-phenols and their derivatives of products
                                                                  29222961               described in add'I U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                                         Amino-naphthols and other amino-phenols; their ethers, esters & salts (not
                                                                  29222981               containing more than one oxygen function) thereof nesoi
                                                                  29223100               Amfepramone (INN), methadone (INN) and normethadone (INN); salts thereof
                                                                                         Aromatic amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones, other than those with more
                                                                  29223925               than one oxygen function; salts; desc in add US note 3 sec VI
                                                                                         Aromatic amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones, other than those with more
                                                                  29223945               than one oxygen function; salts thereof; nesoi
                                                                                         Nonaromatic amino-aldehydes, -ketones and -quinones, other than those with more
                                                                  29223950               than one kind of oxygen function, salts thereof; nesoi


                                                                                                                                  11
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.036</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00023   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15062                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  29224100               Lysine and its esters and salts thereof
                                                                  29224250               Glutamic acid and its salts, other than monosodium glutamate
                                                                  29224400              Tildine (INN) and its salts
                                                                                        m-Aminobenzoic acid, technical; and other specified aromatic amino-acids and their
                                                                  29224910              esters, except those with more than one oxygen function
                                                                                        Aromatic amino-acids drugs and their esters, not containing more than one kind of
                                                                  29224926              oxygen function, nesoi
                                                                                        Aromatic amino-acids and their esters, excl. those with more than one oxygen
                                                                  29224930              function; salts; described in add. U.S. note 3 to sect VI
                                                                                        Aromatic amino-acids and their esters, not contng more than 1 kind of oxygen
                                                                  29224937              function (excluding goods in add U.S. note 3 to sec VI), nesoi
                                                                                        Nonaromatic amino-acids, other than those containing more than one kind of
                                                                  29224949              oxygen function, other than glycine
                                                                                        Non-aromatic esters of amino-acids, other than those containing more than one kind
                                                                  29224980              of oxygen function; salts thereof
                                                                                        3,4-Diaminophenetole dihydrogen sulfate; 2-nitro-5-[(2,3-dihydroxy)propoxy]-N-
                                                                  29225007              methylaniline; and other specified aromatic chemicals
                                                                                        Specified aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and other amino-
                                                                  29225010              compounds with oxygen function
                                                                  29225011               Salts of d(underscored)-(-)-p-Hydroxyphenylglycine
                                                                                         lsoetharine hydrochloride and other specified aromatic drugs of amino-compounds
                                                                  29225013               with oxygen function
                                                                  29225014               Other aromatic cardiovascular drugs of amino-compounds with oxygen function
                                                                                         Aromatic dermatological agents and local anesthetics of amino-compounds with
                                                                  29225017               oxygen function
                                                                  29225025               Aromatic drugs of amino-compounds with oxygen function, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and other amino-compounds
                                                                  29225035               with oxygen function described in add. US note 3 to section VI
                                                                                         Aromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and other amino-compounds
                                                                  29225040               with oxygen function, nesoi
                                                                                         Nonaromatic amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and other amino-
                                                                  29225050               compounds with oxygen function
                                                                  29231000               Choline and its salts
                                                                  29232020               Lecithins and other phosphoaminolipids, nesoi
                                                                                         Quaternary ammonium salts and hydroxides, whether or not chemically defined,
                                                                  29239001               nesoi
                                                                  29241100               Meprobamate (INN)
                                                                  29241911               Acyclic amides (including acyclic carbamates)
                                                                  29241980               Acyclic amide derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi
                                                                  29242116               Aromatic ureines and their derivatives pesticides, nesoi
                                                                  29242150               Nonaromatic ureines and their derivatives; and salts thereof
                                                                                         Acetanilide; N-acetylsulfanilyl chloride; aspartame; and 2-methoxy-5-acetamino-N,N-
                                                                  29242910               bis(2-acetoxyethyl)aniline


                                                                                                                                  12
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.037</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00024   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15063


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  29242962               Other aromatic cyclic amides and derivatives for use as drugs
                                                                                         Aromatic cyclic amides and their derivatives of products described in additional U.S.
                                                                  29242971               note 3 to section VI, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic cyclic amides (incl cyclic carbamates) and their derivatives and salts
                                                                  29242977               thereof, nesoi
                                                                  29242995               Other nonaromatic cyclic amides and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi
                                                                  29251200               Glutethimide (INN)
                                                                  29251942               Other aromatic imides and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi
                                                                  29251991               Other non-aromatic imides and their derivatives
                                                                  29252100               Chlordimeform (ISO)
                                                                  29252920               Aromatic drugs of imines and their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                  29252960               Aromatic imines and their derivatives; salts thereof (excluding drugs); nesoi
                                                                  29252990               Non-aromatic imines and their derivatives; salts thereof
                                                                  29263010               Fenproporex {INN) and its salts
                                                                  29264000               alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile
                                                                  29269014               p-Chlorobenzonitrile and verapamil hydrochloride
                                                                                         Aromatic nitrile-function compounds, nesoi, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                                                                  29269043               section VI
                                                                                         Aromatic nitrile-function compounds other than those products in additional U.S.
                                                                  29269048               note 3 to section VI, nesoi
                                                                                         Diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds, nesoi, described in additional U.S. note 3 to
                                                                  29270040               section VI
                                                                  29270050               Other diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds, nesoi
                                                                  29280025               Aromatic organic derivatives of hydrazine or of hydroxylamine
                                                                                         Nonaromatic drugs of organic derivatives of hydrazine or of hydroxylamine, other
                                                                  29280030               than Methyl ethyl ketoxime
                                                                  29280050               Nonaromatic organic derivatives of hydrazine or of hydroxylamine, nesoi
                                                                  29299020               Aromatic compounds with other nitrogen function, nesoi
                                                                  29299050               Nonaromatic compounds with other nitrogen functions, except isocyanates
                                                                  29302020               Aromatic compounds of thiocarbamates and dithiocarbamates, excluding pesticides
                                                                  29302090               Other non-aromatic thiocarbamates and dithiocarbamates
                                                                  29303060              Thiuram mono-, di- or tetrasulfides, other than tetramethylthiuram monosulfide
                                                                  29309029               Other aromatic organo-sulfur compounds (excluding pesticides)
                                                                  29309049               Nonaromatic organo-sulfur acids, nesoi
                                                                  29309092               Other non-aromatic organo-sulfur compounds
                                                                  29314900               Other non-halogenated organo-phosphorous derivatives
                                                                  29315300               O-(3-chloropropyl) O-[4-nitro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] methylphosphonothionate
                                                                  29319022               Drugs of aromatic organo-inorganic compounds
                                                                  29319090               Other non-aromatic organo-inorganic compounds
                                                                  29321400               Sucralose




                                                                                                                                  13
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.038</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00025   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15064                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Nonaromatic compounds containing an unfused furan ring (whether or not
                                                                  29321951               hydrogenated) in the ring
                                                                  29322020               Aromatic drugs of lactones
                                                                  29322030               Aromatic lactones, nesoi, described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                  29322050               Nona romatic lactones
                                                                                         Aromatic heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) only described in
                                                                  29329961               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI, nesoi
                                                                  29329970               Aromatic heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                  29329990               Nonaromatic heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                  29331100               Phenazone (Antipyrine) and its derivatives
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen
                                                                  29331935               hetero-atom(s) only containing an unfused pyrazole ring
                                                                                         Nonaromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only
                                                                  29331945               containing an unfused pyrazole ring
                                                                                         Other compound (excluding aromatic, modified aromatic & drugs) containing
                                                                  29331990               unfused pyrazole ring (whether or n/hydrogenated) in the structure
                                                                  29332100               Hydantoin and its derivatives
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen
                                                                  29332920               hetero-atom(s) only cont. an unfused imidazole ring
                                                                                         Aromatic or mod. aromatic goods in add US note 3 to sect VI containing an unfused
                                                                  29332935               imidazole ring (whether or n/hydrogenated) in structure
                                                                                         Aromatic or mod aromatic goods contng unfused imidazole ring (whether or
                                                                  29332943               n/hydrogenated) in the structure (exc prod in add US note 3 sec VI)
                                                                                         Nonaromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only,
                                                                  29332945               containing an unfused imidazole ring, nesoi
                                                                                         Other compounds (excluding drugs, aromatic and modified aromatic compounds)
                                                                  29332990               containing an unfused imidazole ring (whether or n/hydrogenated)
                                                                                         Alfentanil (INN), anileridine (INN), bezitramide (INN), bromazepam (INN), difenoxin
                                                                  29333301               (INN), and other specified INNs; salts thereof
                                                                  29333400               Other fentanyls and their derivatives, containing an unfused pyrazole ring
                                                                  29333500               3-Quinuclidinol
                                                                  29333700               N-Phenethyl-4-piperidone (NPP)
                                                                                         1-(3-Sulfapropyl)pryidinium hydroxide; N,N-bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinyl)-
                                                                  29333908               1,6-hexanediamine; and 5 other specified chemicals
                                                                  29333910               Collidines, lutidines and picolines
                                                                                         p-Chloro-2-benzylpyridine & other specified heterocyclic compounds, w nitrogen
                                                                  29333920               hetero-atom(s) only cont. an unfused pyridine ring
                                                                                         Fungicides of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing
                                                                  29333921               an unfused pyridine ring
                                                                  29333923               o-Paraquat dichloride
                                                                                         Herbicides nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only,
                                                                  29333925               containing an unfused pyridine ring
                                                                                         Pesticides nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only,
                                                                  29333927               containing an unfused pyridine ring

                                                                                                                                  14
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.039</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00026   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15065


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Psychotherapeutic agents of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                                                                  29333931               only, containing an unfused pyridine ring, nesoi
                                                                                         Drugs containing an unfused pyridine ring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the
                                                                  29333941               structure, nesoi
                                                                                         Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only containing an unfused
                                                                  29333961               pyridine ring, described in add. US note 3 to sec. VI
                                                                                         Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only containing an unfused
                                                                  29333992               pyridine ring, nesoi
                                                                  29334100               Levorphenol (INN) and its salts
                                                                  29334908               4, 7-Dichloroquinoline
                                                                  29334910               Ethoxyquin (1,2-Dihydro-6-ethoxy-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline)
                                                                  29334915               8-Methylquinoline and lsoquinoline
                                                                  29334917               Ethyl ethyl-6, 7,8-trifluoro-1,4-dihydro-4-oxo-3-quinoline carboxylate
                                                                                         5-Chloro-7-iodo-8-quinolinol (lodochlorhydroxyquin); Decoquinate;
                                                                  29334920               Diiodohydroxyquin; and Oxyquinoline sulfate
                                                                                         Drugs containing a quinoline or isoquinoline ring-system (whether or not
                                                                  29334926               hydrogenated) not further fused, nesoi
                                                                                         Pesticides of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, cont. a
                                                                  29334930               quinoline or isoquinoline ring-system, not further fused
                                                                                         Products described in add. US note 3 to sec VI containing quinoline or isoquinoline
                                                                  29334960               ring-system (whether or n/hydrogenated), n/further fused
                                                                                         Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, containing a quinoline
                                                                  29334970               ring-system, not further fused, nesoi
                                                                  29335210               Malonylurea (barbituric acid)
                                                                  29335290               Salts of barbituric acid
                                                                                         Allobarbital (INN), amobarbital (INN), barbital (INN), butalbital (INN), butobarbital,
                                                                  29335300               and other specified INNs; salts thereof
                                                                  29335400               Other derivatives of malonylurea (barbituric acid); salts thereof
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic herbicides of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen
                                                                  29335910               hetero-atom(s) only, cont. a pyrimidine or piperazine ring
                                                                                         Aromatic or mod. aromatic pesticides nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with
                                                                  29335915               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only cont. pyrimidine or piperazine ring
                                                                                         Nonaromatic pesticides of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                                                                  29335918               only, cont. pyrimidine or piperazine ring, nesoi
                                                                  29335921               Antihistamines, including those principally used as antinauseants
                                                                  29335922               Nicarbazin and trimethoprim
                                                                                         Anti-infective agents nesoi, of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                                                                  29335936               only, cont. pyrimidine, piperazine ring
                                                                                         Psychotherapeutic agents of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                                                                  29335946               only, cont. pyrimidine or piperazine ring, nesoi
                                                                                         Other aromatic or modified aromatic drugs containing a pyrimidine ring (whether or
                                                                  29335953               not hydrogenated) or piperazine ring in the structure
                                                                                         Nonaromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds nesoi, with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                                                                  29335959               only, cont. a pyrimidine or piperazine ring

                                                                                                                                  15
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.040</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00027   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15066                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Aromatic heterocyclic compounds nesoi, with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, cont.
                                                                  29335970               pyrimidine or piperazine ring, in add. U.S. note 3, sec. VI
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds nesoi, with nitrogen hetero-
                                                                  29335980               atom(s) only, cont. pyrimidine or piperazine ring
                                                                                         2-Amino-4-chloro-6-methoxypyrimidine; 2-amino-4,6-dimethoxypyrimidine; and 6-
                                                                  29335985               methyluracil
                                                                                         Other (excluding aromatic or mod aromatic) compds containing pyrimidine ring
                                                                  29335995               (whether or n/hydrogenated) or piperazine ring in the structure
                                                                                         Other compounds containing an unfused triazine ring (whether or not
                                                                  29336960               hydrogenated) in the structure
                                                                  29337200               Clobazam (INN) and methyprylon (INN)
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams with nitrogen hetero-atoms only described in
                                                                  29337908               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                  29337915               Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams, nesoi
                                                                  29337985               Aromatic or modified aromatic lactams with nitrogen hetero-atoms only, nesoi
                                                                                         Alprazolam (INN), camazepam (INN), chlordiazepoxide (INN), clonazepam (INN),
                                                                  29339100               clorazepate, and other specified INNs; salts thereof
                                                                  29339901               Butyl ( R)-2-[ 4-(5-triflouromethyl-2-pyridinyloxy)phenoxy] propanoate
                                                                                         2-[4-[(6-Chloro-2-quinoxalinyl)oxy]phenoxy]propionic acid, ethyl ester; and 1 other
                                                                  29339902               specified aromatic chemical
                                                                  29339905               Acridine and indole
                                                                                         alpha-Butyl-alpha-(4-chlorophenyl)-lH-1,2,4-triazole-1-propanenitrile
                                                                  29339906               (Mycolbutanil); and one other specified aromatic chemical
                                                                                         Acetoacetyl-5-aminobenzimidazolone; 1,3,3-Trimethyl-2-methyleneindoline; and
                                                                  29339908               two other specified aromatic chemicals
                                                                  29339911               Carbazole
                                                                                         6-Bromo-5-methyl-lH-imidazo-(4,5-b)pyridine; 2-sec-butyl-4-tert-butyl-6-
                                                                  29339912               (benzotriazol-2-yl)phenol; 2-methylindoline; and other specific
                                                                  29339916               o-Diquat di bromide (1,1-Ethylene-2,2-dipyridylium dibromide)
                                                                  29339917               Aromatic or modified aromatic insecticides with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                                         Other heterocyclic aromatic or modified aromatic pesticides with nitrogen hetero-
                                                                  29339922               atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic photographic chemicals with nitrogen hetero-atom(s)
                                                                  29339924               only
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic antihistamines of heterocyclic compounds with
                                                                  29339926               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only
                                                                  29339942               Acriflavin; Acriflavin hydrochloride; Carbadox; Pyrazinamide
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic anti-infective agents of heterocyclic compounds with
                                                                  29339946               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                  29339951               Hydralazine hydrochloride
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic cardiovascular drugs of heterocyclic compounds with
                                                                  29339953               nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic analgesics and certain like affecting chemicals, of
                                                                  29339955               heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only

                                                                                                                                  16
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.041</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00028   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15067


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  29339958               Droperidol; and lmipramine hydrochloride
                                                                                         Aromatic/modified aromatic psychotherapeutic agents, affecting the CNS, of
                                                                  29339961               heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic anticonvulsants, hypnotics and sedatives, of
                                                                  29339965               heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs affecting the central nervous system, of
                                                                  29339970               heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen
                                                                  29339975               hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only
                                                                  29339979               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                                         Aromatic or mod. aromatic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only other
                                                                  29339982               than products described in add. U.S. note 3 to section VI, nesoi
                                                                  29339985               3-Am ino-1, 2,4-triazole
                                                                  29339989               Hexamethyleneimine
                                                                                         Nonaromatic drugs of heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only,
                                                                  29339990               nesoi
                                                                  29339997               Nonaromatic heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds cont. an unfused thiazole
                                                                  29341010               ring, described in add. U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic heterocyclic compounds, nesoi, containing an
                                                                  29341020               unfused thiazole ring
                                                                                         Other compounds (excluding aromatic or modified aromatic) containing an unfused
                                                                  29341090               thiazole ring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure
                                                                                         Heterocyclic compounds containing a benzothiazole ring-system, not further fused,
                                                                  29342040               described in add. U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                                         Other compounds containing a benzothiazole ring system (whether or not
                                                                  29342080               hydrogenated), not further fused
                                                                                         Antidepressants, tranquilizers and other pschotherapeutic agents containing a
                                                                  29343023               phenothiazine ring-system, not further fused
                                                                                         Other drugs containing a phenothiazine ring system (whether or not hydrogenated),
                                                                  29343027               not further fused, nesoi
                                                                                         Products described in add. US note 3 to section VI containing a phenothiazine ring
                                                                  29343043               system (whether or not hydrogenated), not further fused
                                                                                         Heterocyclic compounds containing a phenothiazine ring-system (whether or not
                                                                  29343050               hydrogenated), not further fused, nesoi
                                                                                         Aminorex (INN), brotizolam (INN), clotiazepam (INN), cloxazolam (INN),
                                                                  29349100               dextromoramide (INN), and other specified INNs; salts thereof
                                                                  29349200               Other fentanyls and their derivatives, containing an unfused thiazole ring
                                                                  29349901               Mycophenolate mofetil
                                                                                         2-Acetylbenzo(b)thiophene; and 2 other specified aromatic or modified aromatic
                                                                  29349903               compounds
                                                                                         5-Amino-3-phenyl-1,2,4-thiadiazole(3-Phenyl-5-amino-1,2,4-thiadiazole); and 3 other
                                                                  29349905               specified aromatic/mod. aromatic heterocyclic compounds


                                                                                                                                  17
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.042</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00029   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15068                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  29349906               7-Nitronaphth[l,2]oxadiazole-5-sulfonic acid and its salts
                                                                  29349907               Ethyl 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazoyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoate (Fenoxaprop- ethyl)
                                                                  29349908               2,5-Diphenyloxazole
                                                                  29349909               1,2-Benzisothiazolin-3-one
                                                                                         2-tert-Butyl-4-(2,4-dichloro-5-isopropoxyphenyl)-delta(squared)-1,3,4-oxadiazolin-5-
                                                                  29349911               one; Bentazon; Phosalone
                                                                  29349912               Aromatic or modified aromatic fungicides of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi
                                                                  29349915               Aromatic or modified aromatic herbicides of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi
                                                                  29349916               Aromatic or modified aromatic insecticides of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic pesticides nesoi, of other heterocyclic compounds,
                                                                  29349918               nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic photographic chemicals of other heterocyclic
                                                                  29349920               compounds, nesoi
                                                                  29349930               Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi
                                                                                         Aromatic or modified aromatic other heterocyclic compounds described in
                                                                  29349939               additional U.S. note 3 to section VI
                                                                  29349944               Aromatic or modified aromatic other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi
                                                                  29349947               Nonaromatic drugs of other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi
                                                                                         Morpholinethyl chloride hydrochloride; 2-methyl-2,5-dioxo-1-oxa-2-phospholan; and
                                                                  29349970               1 other specified nonaromatic chemical
                                                                  29349990               Nonaromatic other heterocyclic compounds, nesoi
                                                                  29355000               Other perfluorooctane sulfonamides
                                                                                         4-Amino-6-chloro-m-benzenedisulfonamide and Methyl-4-
                                                                  29359006               aminobenzenesulfonylcarbamate (Asulam)
                                                                  29359010               2-Amino-N-Ethylbenzenesulfonanilide etc
                                                                                         (5-[2-Chloro-4-(Trifluoromeythyl)phenoxy]-N-(Methylsulfonyl)-2-
                                                                  29359013               Nitrobenzamide)(fomesafen); etc
                                                                  29359015               ortho-Toluenesulfonamide
                                                                  29359020               Sulfonamides used as fast color bases and fast color salts
                                                                  29359030               Sulfamethazine
                                                                  29359032               Acetylsulfisoxazole; Sulfacetamide, sodium; and Sulfamethazine, sodium
                                                                  29359033               Sulfathiazole and Sulfathiazole, sodium
                                                                                         Salicylazosulfapyridine (Sulfasalazine); Sulfadiazine; Sulfaguanidine; Sulfamerizine;
                                                                  29359042               and Sulfapyridine
                                                                  29359048               Other sulfonamides used as anti-infective agents
                                                                  29359060               Other sulfonamide drugs (excluding anti-infective agents)
                                                                                         Other sulfonamides (excluding drugs, etc) of products descibed in US note 3 to
                                                                  29359075               section 6
                                                                                         Other sulfonamides, excluding drugs, excluding products described in US note 4 to
                                                                  29359095               section 6
                                                                  29362100               Vitamins A and their derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized
                                                                  29362200               Vitamin B1 (Thiamine) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized


                                                                                                                                  18
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.043</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00030   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15069


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  29362300               Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized
                                                                                         Vitamin BS (D- or DL-Pantothenic acid) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or
                                                                  29362401               synthesized
                                                                                         Vitamin B6 (Pyridoxine and related compounds with Vitamin B6 activity) and its
                                                                  29362500               derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized
                                                                                         Vitamin B12 (Cyanocobalamin and related compounds with Vitamin B12 activity) and
                                                                  29362600               its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized
                                                                  29362700               Vitamin C (Ascorbic acid) and its derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized
                                                                                         Vitamin E (Tocopherols and related compounds with Vitamin E activity) and its
                                                                  29362800               derivatives, unmixed, natural or synthesized
                                                                  29362910               Folic acid and its derivatives, unmixed
                                                                  29362916               Niacin and niacinamide
                                                                  29362920               Aromatic or modified aromatic vitamins and their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                  29362950               Other vitamins and their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Vitamins or provitamins (including natural concentrates) and intermixtures of the
                                                                  29369001               foregoing, whether or not in any solvent
                                                                  29371100               Somatotropin, its derivatives and structural analogues
                                                                  29371200               Insulin and its salts
                                                                                         Polypeptide hormones, protein hormones and glycoprotein hormones, their
                                                                  29371900               derivatives and structural analogues, nesoi
                                                                                         Cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone (Dehydrocortisone) and prednisolone
                                                                  29372100               (Dehydrohydrocortisone)
                                                                  29372200               Halogenated derivatives of corticosteroidal hormones
                                                                                         Estrogens and progestins obtained directly or indirectly from animal or vegetable
                                                                  29372310               materials
                                                                  29372325               Estradiol benzoate; and Estradiol cyclopentylpropionate (estradiol cypionate)
                                                                                         Other estrogens and progestins not derived from animal or vegetable materials,
                                                                  29372350               nesoi
                                                                  29372910               Desonide; and Nandrolone phenpropionate
                                                                  29372990               Steroidal hormones, their derivatives and structural analogues, nesoi
                                                                                         Prostaglandins, thromboxanes and leukotrienes, their derivatives and structural
                                                                  29375000               analogues
                                                                  29379005               Epinephrine
                                                                  29379010               Epinephrine hydrochloride
                                                                  29379020               Catecholamine hormones, their derivatives and structural analogues, nesoi
                                                                  29379040               1-Thyroxine(Levothyroxine), sodium
                                                                  29379045               Amino-acid derivatives of hormones and their derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Other hormones,their derivatives and structural analogues,other steroid derivatives
                                                                  29379090               and structural analogue used primarily as hormones,nesoi
                                                                  29381000               Rutoside (Rutin) and its derivatives
                                                                                         Glycosides, natural or synthesized, and their salts, ethers, esters, and other
                                                                  29389000               derivatives other than rutoside and its derivatives



                                                                                                                                  19
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.044</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00031   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15070                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Concentrates of poppy straw; buprenorphine (INN), codeine, dihydrocodeine (INN),
                                                                  29391100               ethylmorphine, and other specified INNs; salts thereof
                                                                  29391910               Papaverine and its salts
                                                                  29391920               Synthetic alkaloids of opium and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi
                                                                  29391950               Nonsynthetic alkaloids of opium and their derivatives; salts thereof; nesoi
                                                                                         Alkaloids of cinchona, and their derivatives; salts thereof, other than quinine and its
                                                                  29392000               salts
                                                                  29393000               Caffeine and its salts
                                                                  29394100               Ephedrine and its salts
                                                                  29394200               Pseudoephedrine and its salts
                                                                  29394400              Norephedrine & its salts
                                                                                        Levometamfetamine, metamfetamine (INN), metamfetamine racemate and their
                                                                  29394500              salts
                                                                                        Alkaloids of ephedra and their salts, other than ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
                                                                  29394903              cathine, norephedrine, levometamfetamine and their salts
                                                                                        Theophylline aminophylline (Theophylline-ethylenediamine) and their derivatives;
                                                                  29395900              salts thereof; nesoi
                                                                  29396200               Ergotamine and its salts
                                                                  29396300               Lysergic acid and its salts
                                                                  29396900               Alkaloids of rye ergot and their derivatives, nesoi; salts thereof
                                                                  29397200               Cocaine, ecgonine; salts, esters and other derivatives thereof
                                                                                         Vegetable alkaloids, natural or reproduced by synthesis, their salts and other
                                                                  29397900               derivatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Other alkaloids, natural or reproduced by synthesis and their salts, ethers, esters &
                                                                  29398000               other derivatives, nesoi
                                                                  29400060               Other sugars, nesoi excluding d-arabinose
                                                                  29411010               Ampicillin and its salts
                                                                  29411020               Penicillin G salts
                                                                                         Carfecillin, sodium; cloxacillin, sodium; dicloxacillin, sodium; flucloxacillin
                                                                  29411030               (Floxacillin); and oxacillin, sodium
                                                                  29411050               Penicillins and their derivatives nesoi, with a penicillanic acid structure; salts thereof
                                                                  29412010               Dihydrostreptomycins and its derivatives; salts thereof
                                                                  29412050               Streptomycins and their derivatives; salts thereof, nesoi
                                                                  29413000              Tetracyclines and their derivatives; salts thereof
                                                                  29414000               Chloramphenicol and their derivatives; salts thereof
                                                                  29415000               Erythromycin and their derivatives; salts thereof
                                                                  29419010               Natural antibiotics, nesoi
                                                                  29419030               Antibiotics, nesoi, aromatic or modified aromatic, other than natural
                                                                  29419050               Antibiotics nesoi, other than aromatic or modified aromatic antibiotics
                                                                  29420005               Aromatic or modified aromatic drugs of other organic compounds, nesoi
                                                                                         Other aromatic or modified aromatic organic compounds (excluding products
                                                                  29420035               described in additional U.S. note 3 to section VI)


                                                                                                                                  20
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                      ED07AP25.045</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00032   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15071


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  29420050               Nonaromatic organic compounds, nesoi
                                                                  30012000               Extracts of glands or other organs or of their secretions for organotherapeutic uses
                                                                                         Glands and other organs for organotherapeutic uses, dried, whether or not
                                                                  30019001               powdered
                                                                  30021200               Antisera and other blood fractions including human blood and fetal bovine serum
                                                                                         Immunological products, unmixed, not put up in measured doses or in forms or
                                                                  30021300               packings for retail sale
                                                                                         Immunological products, mixed, not put up in measured doses or in forms or
                                                                  30021400               packings for retail sale
                                                                                         Immunological products, put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail
                                                                  30021500               sale
                                                                  30024100               Vaccines for human medicine
                                                                  30024200               Vaccines for veterinary medicine
                                                                  30024900              Toxins or cultures of micro-organisms (excluding yeasts)
                                                                  30025100               Cell therapy products
                                                                  30025900               Other cell cultures, other than cell therapy products
                                                                  30029010               Ferments, excluding yeasts
                                                                                         Human blood; animal blood prepared for therapeutic, prophylactic, diagnostic uses;
                                                                  30029052               antisera; antiallergenic preparations nesoi & like products
                                                                                         Medicaments, cont. penicillins or streptomycins, not dosage form and not packed for
                                                                  30031000               retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing antibiotics, nesoi, not dosage form and not packaged for
                                                                  30032000               retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing artificial mixtures of natural hormones, but not antibiotics,
                                                                  30033910               not dosage form and not packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing products of heading 2937, nesoi, but not antibiotics, not
                                                                  30033950               dosage form and not packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing ephedrine or its salts, not dosage form and not packed for
                                                                  30034100               retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing pseudoephedrine (INN) or its salts, not dosage form and
                                                                  30034200               not packed for retail
                                                                                         Other medicaments containing alkaloids or derivatives thereof, nesoi, not dosage
                                                                  30034900               form and not packed for retail
                                                                                         Other medicaments excl goods of heading 3002, 3005, 3006 consist of two or more
                                                                  30039001               consituents mixed together, not dosage form and not packed for retail
                                                                  30041010               Medicaments containing penicillin G salts, in dosage form and packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments cont. penicillins or streptomycins, nesoi, in dosage form or packed for
                                                                  30041050               retail
                                                                  30042000               Medicaments containing antibiotics, nesoi, in dosage form or packed for retail
                                                                  30043100               Medicaments containing insulin, in dosage form or packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments, containing adrenal cortical hormones, in dosage form or packed for
                                                                  30043200               retail
                                                                                         Medicaments, containing products of heading 2937 nesoi, in dosage form or packed
                                                                  30043900               for retail

                                                                                                                                  21
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.046</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00033   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15072                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  30044100               Medicaments containing ephedrine or its salts, in dosage form and packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing pseudoephedrine (INN) or its salts, in dosage form and
                                                                  30044200               packed for retail
                                                                                         Other medicaments containing alkaloids or derivatives thereof, nesoi, in dosage
                                                                  30044900               form and packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing vitamin B2 synthesized from aromatic or mod. aromatic
                                                                  30045010               compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing vitamin B12 synthesized from aromatic or mod. Aromatic
                                                                  30045020               compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing vitamin E synthesized from aromatic or mod. aromatic
                                                                  30045030               compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing vitamins nesoi, synthesized from aromatic or mod.
                                                                  30045040               aromatic compounds, in dosage form or packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing vitamins or other products of heading 2936, nesoi, in
                                                                  30045050               dosage form or packed for retail
                                                                                         Other medicaments containing antimalarial active principles described in subheading
                                                                  30046000               note 2 to this chapter, in dosage form and packed for retail
                                                                                         Medicaments containing antigens or hyaluronic acid or its sodium salt, nesoi, in
                                                                  30049010               dosage form or packed for retail
                                                                  30049092               Medicaments nesoi, in dosage form and packed for retail
                                                                                         Opacifying preparation for X-ray examination; diagnostic reagent designed to be
                                                                  30063010               administered to the patient; all cont. antigens or antisera
                                                                                         Opacifying preparations for X-ray examinations; diagnostic reagents designed to be
                                                                  30063050               administered to the patient, nesoi
                                                                  30066000               Chemical contraceptive preparations based on hormones or spermicides
                                                                                         Gel preparation use human/veterinary medicine lubricant in surgical operation,
                                                                  30067000               physical exam or coupling agent tween body & med instrument
                                                                                         Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, packaged with
                                                                  30069310               medicinal preparations
                                                                                         Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, containing over
                                                                  30069320               10% by dry weight of sugar
                                                                                         Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, containing
                                                                  30069350               ingredients having nutritional value
                                                                                         Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, in liquid form for
                                                                  30069360               oral intake
                                                                                         Placebos and blinded clinical trial kits, put up in measured doses, containing other
                                                                  30069380               chemicals other than medicaments
                                                                  31042000               Potassium chloride
                                                                  31043000               Potassium sulfate
                                                                  31049001               Mineral or chemical fertilizers, potassic, nesoi
                                                                  31051000               Fertilizers of chapter 31 in tablets or similar for
                                                                  31052000               Mineral or chemical fertilizers nesoi, containin
                                                                  31056000               Mineral or chemical fertilizers nesoi, containin
                                                                  32030080               Coloring matter of vegetable or animal origin, nesoi

                                                                                                                                  22
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                  ED07AP25.047</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00034   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15073


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  32041380               Basic dyes and preparations based thereon, nesoi
                                                                  32041720               Copper phthalocyanine ([Phthalocyanato(2-)]copper) not ready for use as a pigment
                                                                  32041800               Carotenoid coloring matters and preparations based thereon
                                                                                         Pigments & preparations based on titanium dioxide containing 80 percent or more
                                                                  32061100               by weight off titanium dioxide calculated on the dry weight
                                                                  32061900               Pigments and preparations based on titanium dioxide, nesoi
                                                                  34024210               Non-ionic organic surface-active agents, aromatic or modified aromatic
                                                                                         Fatty substances of animal, vegetable or microbial origin; non-ionic organic surface-
                                                                  34024220               active agents, other than aromatic or modified aromatic
                                                                                         Non-ionic organic surface-active agents, other than fatty substances of animal,
                                                                  34024290               vegetable or microbial origin, other than aromatic/ modified aromatic
                                                                  36069030               Ferrocerium and other pyrophoric alloys in all forms
                                                                  38089410               Disinfectants, containing any aromatic or modified aromatic disinfectant
                                                                  38089450               Disinfectants not subject to subheading note 1 of chapter 38, nesoi
                                                                                         Chemical elements doped for use in electronics, in the form of discs, wafers etc.,
                                                                  38180000               chemical compounds doped for electronic use
                                                                  38249100               Mixtures consisting mainly of methylphosphonate etc.
                                                                                         Mixtures containing 5% or more by weight of one or more aromatic or modified
                                                                  38249929               aromatic substance, nesoi
                                                                                         Mixtures that are in whole or in part of hydrocarbons derived in whole or in part
                                                                  38249949               from petroleum, shale oil or natural gas
                                                                  38249955               Mixtures of halogenated hydrocarbons, nesoi
                                                                                         Chemical products and preparations and residual products of the chemical or allied
                                                                  38249993               industries, nesoi
                                                                  39019090               Polymers of ethylene, nesoi, in primary forms, other than elastomeric
                                                                  39029000               Polymers of propylene or of other olefins, nesoi, in primary forms
                                                                  39046100               Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), in primary forms
                                                                                         Copolymers of vinyl esters or other vinyls, in primary forms, containing by weight
                                                                  39059110               50% or more of derivatives of vinyl acetate
                                                                  39059980               Polymers of vinyl esters or other vinyl polymers, in primary forms, nesoi
                                                                  39069050               Acrylic polymers (except plastics or elastomers), in primary forms, nesoi
                                                                  39071000               Polyacetals in primary forms
                                                                  39072100               Bis(polyoxyethylene) methylphosphonate
                                                                                         Polyethers, other than polyacetals or bis(polyoxyethylene) methylphosphonate, in
                                                                  39072900               primary forms
                                                                  39073000               Epoxide resins in primary forms
                                                                  39076100               Polyethylene terephthalate, having a viscosity number of 78 ml/g or higher
                                                                  39076900               Polyethylene terephthalate, having a viscosity number less than 78 ml/g
                                                                  39077000               Poly(lactic acid)
                                                                  39079950               Other polyesters nesoi, saturated, in primary forms
                                                                  39081000               Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -6,10 or -6,12 in primary form
                                                                  39100000               Silicones in primary forms


                                                                                                                                  23
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.048</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00035   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15074                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                        Thermoplastic polysulfides, polysulfones & oth products spec in note 3, chapt 39,
                                                                  39119025              cont aromatic monomer units or derived therefrom
                                                                  39119091               Polysulfides, polysulfones & other products specified in note 3 to chapter 39, nesoi
                                                                  39123100               Carboxymethylcellulose and its salts
                                                                  39123900               Cellulose ethers, other than carboxymethylcellulose and its salts, in primary forms
                                                                  39129000               Cellulose and its chemical derivatives nesoi, in primary forms
                                                                  39139020               Polysaccharides and their derivatives, nesoi, in primary forms
                                                                  39139050               Natural polymers and modified natural polymers, nesoi, in primary forms
                                                                  39140060               Ion-exchangers based on polymers of headings 3901 to 3913, in primary forms, nesoi
                                                                  40011000               Natural rubber latex, whether or not prevulcanized
                                                                  40012100               Natural rubber smoked sheets
                                                                  40012200              Technically specified natural rubber (TSNR), in primary forms
                                                                                        Natural rubber in primary forms other than latex, smoked sheets or technically
                                                                  40012900              specified natural rubber (TSNR)
                                                                                        Balata, gutta-percha, guayule, chicle and similar natural rubber gums, in primary
                                                                  40013000              forms
                                                                  44011100               Coniferous fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots or similar forms
                                                                  44011200               Nonconiferous fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots or similar forms
                                                                  44012100               Coniferous wood in chips or particles
                                                                  44012200               Nonconiferous wood in chips or particles
                                                                  44013100               Sawdust and wood waste and scrap, pellets
                                                                  44013200               Wood briquettes
                                                                                         Sawdust and wood waste and scrap, agglomerated, excluding wood pellets, wood
                                                                  44013942               briquettes and artificial fire logs
                                                                  44014100               Sawdust, not agglomerated
                                                                  44014900               Other wood waste and scrap, not agglomerated, other than sawdust
                                                                                         Wood charcoal (including shell or nut charcoal), whether or not agglomerated, of
                                                                  44021000               bamboo
                                                                                         Wood charcoal (including shell or nut charcoal), whether or not agglomerated, of
                                                                  44022000               shell or nut
                                                                                         Wood charcoal (including shell or nut charcoal), whether or not agglomerated, other
                                                                  44029001               than of bamboo or shell or nut
                                                                                         Coniferous wood in the rough whether or not stripped of bark or sapwood, or
                                                                  44031100               roughly squared, treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Nonconiferous wood in the rough whether or not stripped of bark or sapwood, or
                                                                  44031200               roughly squared, treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Pine wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension greater than or
                                                                  44032101               equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Pine wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension less than 15 cm,
                                                                  44032201               not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Fir and spruce wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension greater
                                                                  44032301               than or equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives



                                                                                                                                  24
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.049</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00036   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15075


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Fir and spruce wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension less than
                                                                  44032401               15 cm, not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Other coniferous wood, except pine, fir and spruce, in the rough/roughly squared,
                                                                  44032501               greater than or equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Other coniferous wood, except pine, fir and spruce, in the rough/roughly squared,
                                                                  44032601               less than 15 cm, not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Wood in the rough/roughly squared, of teak, not treated with
                                                                  44034200               paint/stain/creosote/other preserv
                                                                                         Wood in the rough/roughly squared, of tropical wood other than Teak or Meranti,
                                                                  44034902               not treated with paint/stain/creosote/other preserv
                                                                                         Oak wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of bark or sapwood, or roughly
                                                                  44039100               squared, not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Beech wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension greater than or
                                                                  44039301               equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Beech wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension less than 15 cm,
                                                                  44039401               not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Birch wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension greater than or
                                                                  44039501               equal to 15 cm, not treated with preservatives
                                                                                         Birch wood in the rough/roughly squared, the smallest dimension less than 15 cm,
                                                                  44039601               not treated with preservatives
                                                                  44039700               Poplar and aspen wood in the rough/roughly squared, not treated with preservatives
                                                                  44039800               Eucalyptus wood in the rough/roughly squared, not treated with preservatives
                                                                  44039901               Wood in the rough/roughly squared, not treated with preservatives, nesoi
                                                                                         Coniferous wood, roughly shaped into poles, pickets, stakes, sticks and other forms,
                                                                  44041000               to be finished into specific articles or products
                                                                                         Nonconiferous wood, roughly shaped into poles, pickets, stakes, sticks and other
                                                                  44042000               forms, to be finished into specific articles or products
                                                                  44050000               Wood wool (excelsior); wood flour
                                                                  44061100               Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of coniferous wood, not impregnated
                                                                  44061200               Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of nonconiferous wood, not impregnated
                                                                  44069100               Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of coniferous wood, impregnated
                                                                  44069200               Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of nonconiferous wood, impregnated
                                                                  44071100               Pine wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44071200               Fir and spruce wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Mixtures of spruce, pine and fir (S-P-F) wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or
                                                                  44071300               peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Mixtures of hemlock and fir (hem-fir) wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or
                                                                  44071400               peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Other coniferous wood, nesoi, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6
                                                                  44071900               mm thick
                                                                                         Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and other specified tropical woods, sawn or
                                                                  44072100               chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Okoume, Obeche, Sapelli and other specified tropical woods, sawn or chipped
                                                                  44072200               lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick

                                                                                                                                  25
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.050</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00037   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15076                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  44072301              Teak, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                                        Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti Bakau wood sawn or chipped
                                                                  44072500              lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                                        White Lauan, White Meranti, White Seraya, Yellow Meranta and Alan wood sawn or
                                                                  44072600              chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44072700               Sapelli wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44072800               lroko wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44072902              Tropical wood, nesoi, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44079100               Oak wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44079200               Beech wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44079300               Maple wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44079400               Cherry wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44079500               Ash wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                  44079600               Birch wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Poplar and aspen wood, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6 mm
                                                                  44079700               thick
                                                                                         Nonconiferous wood, nesoi, sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, over 6
                                                                  44079902               mm thick
                                                                                         Coniferous veneer sheets and sheets for plywood & coniferous wood
                                                                  44081001               sawn/sliced/peeled not over 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti Bakau veneer sheets and sheets
                                                                  44083101               for plywood and other wood sawn/sliced/peeled, n/o 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Other tropical wood veneer sheets and sheets for plywood, and wood
                                                                  44083902               sawn/sliced/peeled n/o 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Nontropical nonconiferous veneer sheets and sheets for plywood and other wood
                                                                  44089001               sawn/sliced/peeled, not over 6 mm thick
                                                                                         Coniferous wood continuously shaped along any of its ends, whether or not also
                                                                  44091005               continuously shaped along any its edges or faces
                                                                                         Coniferous wood siding continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not
                                                                  44091010               on its ends
                                                                                         Coniferous wood flooring continuously shaped along any of its edges or faces but not
                                                                  44091020               on its ends
                                                                                         Standard wood moldings of pine (Pin us spp.) continuously shaped along any of its
                                                                  44091040               edges or faces but not on its ends
                                                                                         Standard coniferous wood moldings, other than of pine, continuously shaped along
                                                                  44091045               any of its edges or faces but not on its ends
                                                                                         Coniferous wood moldings, other than standard type, continuously shaped along any
                                                                  44091050               of its edges or faces but not on its ends
                                                                                         Coniferous wood dowel rods, plain, continuously shaped along any of its edges or
                                                                  44091060               faces but not on its ends
                                                                                         Coniferous wood dowel rod, sanded/grooved/otherwise advanced in condition,
                                                                  44091065               continuously shaped along any of edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Coniferous wood, other than siding, flooring, moldings or dowel rod, continuously
                                                                  44091090               shaped along any of its edges or faces but not on its ends

                                                                                                                                  26
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.051</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00038   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15077


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Nonconiferous wood (bamboo) continuously shaped along any of its ends, wether or
                                                                  44092105               not also continuously shaped along any its edges or faces
                                                                  44092190               Bamboo, other than continuously shaped along any of its ends
                                                                                         Nonconiferous tropical wood continuously shaped along any ends, whether or not
                                                                  44092205               also continuously shaped along any edges or faces
                                                                                         Nonconiferous tropical wood siding, whether or not continuously shaped along its
                                                                  44092210               edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Nonconiferous tropical wood flooring, whether or not continuously shaped along its
                                                                  44092225               edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Nonconiferous tropical wood standard moldings, whether or not continuously
                                                                  44092240               shaped along its edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Other nonconiferous tropical wood moldings, whether or not continuously shaped
                                                                  44092250               along its edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Plain nonconiferous tropical wood dowel rods, whether or not continuously shaped
                                                                  44092260               along its edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Nonconif. tropical wood dowel rods, sanded/grooved/otherwise advanced in
                                                                  44092265               condition, whether or not continuous. along edges or faces but not ends
                                                                                         Other nonconiferous tropical wood, whether or not continuously shaped along its
                                                                  44092290               edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Other nonconiferous wood, continuously shaped along any ends, whether or not
                                                                  44092906               also continuously shaped along any edges or faces
                                                                                         Other nonconiferous wood siding, whether or not continuously shaped along its
                                                                  44092911               edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Other nonconiferous wood flooring, whether or not continuously shaped along its
                                                                  44092926               edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Other nonconiferous standard wood moldings, whether or not continuously shaped
                                                                  44092941               along its edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Other nonconiferous wood moldings, whether or not continuously shaped along its
                                                                  44092951               edges or faces but not its ends
                                                                                         Plain other nonconif. wood dowel rods, whether or not continuously shaped along
                                                                  44092961               edgesorfacesbutnotends
                                                                                         Other nonconif. wood dowel rods, sanded/grooved/otherwise advanced in
                                                                  44092966               condition, whether or not continuously shaped along edges or faces but not ends
                                                                                         Other nonconiferous wood, whether or not continuously shaped along its edges or
                                                                  44092991               faces but not its ends
                                                                  44101100               Waferboard, including oriented strand board, of wood
                                                                                         Oriented strand board and waferboard, of wood, unworked or not further worked
                                                                  44101200               than sanded
                                                                  44101900               Particle board and similar board of wood, other than waferboard
                                                                  44109000               Particle board and similar board of ligneous materials other than wood
                                                                  44111210               MDF, <= 5mm thick, not mechanically worked or surface covered
                                                                  44111220               MDF, <= 5mm thick, for construction, laminated
                                                                  44111230               MDF, <= 5mm thick, for construction, not laminated, nesoi



                                                                                                                                  27
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.052</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00039   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15078                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a density over 0.5 g/cm3 but not over 0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically
                                                                  44111260               worked surface covered (Except for oil treatment)
                                                                  44111290               MDF, <= 5mm thick, not for construction, nesoi
                                                                  44111310               MDF, >5mm but<= 9 mm thick, not mechanically worked or surface covered
                                                                  44111320               MDF, >5mm but<= 9 mm thick,, for construction, laminated
                                                                  44111330               MDF, >5mm but<= 9 mm thick, for construction, not laminated, nesoi
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a density over 0.5 g/cm3 but not over 0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically
                                                                  44111360               worked surface covered(except for oil treatment)
                                                                  44111390               MDF, >5mm but<= 9 mm thick, not for construction, nesoi
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a thickness exceeding 9 mm, not mechanically worked or surface
                                                                  44111410               covered
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a thickness exceeding 9 mm, edgeworked continuously, laminated, for
                                                                  44111420               construction uses
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a thickness exceeding 9 mm, tongued, grooved or rabbetted
                                                                  44111430               continuously, for construction uses, nesoi
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a thickness exceeding 9 mm, not mechanically worked surface covered
                                                                  44111460               (except for oil treatment)
                                                                  44111490               Fiberboard nesoi,of a thickness exceeding 9 mm
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a density exceeding 0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically worked or surface
                                                                  44119210               covered
                                                                                         Fiberboard, of a density exceeding 0.8 g/cm3, mechanically worked, not surface
                                                                  44119220               covered (except for oil treatment)
                                                                                         Fiberboard, of a density exceeding 0.8 g/cm3, mechanically edged-worked, for
                                                                  44119230               construction uses
                                                                  44119240               Fiberboard nesoi, density exceeding 0.8 g/cm3
                                                                                         Fiberboard, not MDF, of a density >0.5 but <=0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically worked or
                                                                  44119310               surface covered
                                                                                         Fiberboard, not MDF, of a density >0.5 but <=0.8 g/cm3, edgeworked continuously,
                                                                  44119320               laminated, for construction uses
                                                                                         Fiberboard, not MDF, of a density >0.5 but <=0.8 g/cm3, tongued, grooved or
                                                                  44119330               rabbetted continuously, for construction, nesoi
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a density over 0.5 g/cm3 but not over 0.8 g/cm3, not mechanically
                                                                  44119360               worked surface covered (Except for oil)
                                                                  44119390               Fiberboard, not MDF, of a density >0.5 but <=0.8 g/cm3, nesoi
                                                                                         Fiberboard of a density exceeding 0.35 g/cm3 but not exceeding 0.5 g/cm3, not
                                                                  44119400               mechanically worked or surface covered
                                                                  44121005               Plywood, veneered panels and similar laminated wood, of bamboo
                                                                  44121090               Veneered panels and similar laminated wood, of bamboo, other than plywood
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood outer ply, birch face ply, not surface
                                                                  44123106               covered beyond clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood outer ply, Spanish cedar or walnut
                                                                  44123126               face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood outer ply, with mahogany face ply, not
                                                                  44123142               surface covered beyond clear/transparent

                                                                                                                                  28
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.053</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00040   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15079


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick tropical wood outer ply not mahogony face ply not
                                                                  44123145               surfact covered beyond clear/transparent of spec. thick, width, length
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood outer ply, not mahogony face ply, not
                                                                  44123148               surface covered beyond clear/transparent, nesoi
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood nesoi at least one outer ply, with face
                                                                  44123152               ply nesoi, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, with certain specified tropical wood outer ply,
                                                                  44123161               surface covered beyond clear or transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, tropical wood nesoi at least one outer ply, surface
                                                                  44123192               covered beyond clear or transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, birch face ply, not surface covered beyond
                                                                  44123306               clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, walnut face ply, not surface covered beyond
                                                                  44123326               clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of specified nonconiferous wood excluding
                                                                  44123332               walnut and birch, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of specified nonconiferous wood including
                                                                  44123357               birch and walnut, surface covered beyond clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of nonconiferous wood not in 4412.33,
                                                                  44123426               spanish cedar face ply, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of nonconiferous wood not in 4412.33, face
                                                                  44123432               ply nesoi, not surface covered beyond clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood sheets n/o 6mm thick, outerply of nonconiferous wood not in 4412.33, face
                                                                  44123457               ply nesoi, surface covered beyond clear/transparent
                                                                                         Plywood of wood sheets, n/o 6 mm thick each, with outer plies of coniferous wood,
                                                                  44123910               face ply of Parana pine, not or clear surface covered
                                                                                         Plywood of wood sheets, n/o 6 mm thick each, with outer plies of coniferous wood,
                                                                  44123930               European red pine face ply, not or clear surface covered
                                                                                         Plywood of wood sheets, n/o 6 mm thick each, with outer plies of coniferous wood,
                                                                  44123940               with face ply nesoi, not or clear surface covered
                                                                                         Plywood of wood sheets, n/o 6 mm thick each, with outer plies of coniferous wood,
                                                                  44123950               nesoi, surface covered, nesoi
                                                                  44124100               Laminated veneered lumber with at least one outer ply of tropical wood
                                                                  44124200               Laminated veneered lumber with at least one outer ply of nonconiferous wood
                                                                  44124900               Laminated veneered lumber with both outer plies of coniferous wood
                                                                                         Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one tropical outer ply, not surface-covered
                                                                  44125110               beyond clear/transparent, w/face ply of birch
                                                                                         Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one tropical outer ply, not surface-covered
                                                                  44125131               beyond clear/transparent, not w/face ply of birch
                                                                                         Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one tropical outer ply, surface covered other
                                                                  44125141               than clear or transparent
                                                                  44125151               Blockboard etc: other than plywood nesoi, at least one tropical outer ply
                                                                                         Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one nonconiferous outer ply, not surface-
                                                                  44125210               covered beyond clear/transparent, w/face ply of birch


                                                                                                                                  29
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.054</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00041   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15080                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one nonconiferous outer ply, not surface-
                                                                  44125231               covered beyond clear/transparent, not w/face ply of birch
                                                                                         Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one nonconiferous outer ply, surface
                                                                  44125241               covered other than clear or transparent
                                                                  44125251               Blockboard etc: other than plywood nesoi, at least one nonconiferous outer ply
                                                                                         Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one con if. outer ply, not surface-covered
                                                                  44125980               beyond transparent, not w/face ply of Europe red pine or Parana pine
                                                                                         Blockboard etc: plywood nesoi, at least one coniferous outer ply, surface covered
                                                                  44125990               other than clear or transparent
                                                                  44125995               Blockboard etc: other than plywood nesoi, at least one coniferous outer ply
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood/veneered panel/sim. w/at least one outer ply of tropical
                                                                  44129106               wood containing at least one layer of particle board
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/at least one outer play of tropical wood, no particle
                                                                  44129110               board, not surface-covered beyond clear/transparent, w/face ply birch
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/at least one outer play of tropical wood, no particle
                                                                  44129131               board, not surface-covered beyond transparent, not w/face ply of birch
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/at least one outer ply of tropical, surface covered other
                                                                  44129141               than clear or transparent
                                                                                         Not blackboard: veneered panels and similar laminated wood w/ at least one
                                                                  44129151               tropical outer ply, nesoi
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood/veneered panel/sim. w/at least one nonconiferous outer
                                                                  44129207               ply, at least one layer of particle board
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/at least one outer ply of nonconif wood, no particle
                                                                  44129211               board, not surface-covered beyond clear/transparent, w/face ply birch
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/at least one outer play of nonconif wood, no particle
                                                                  44129231               board, not surface-covered beyond transparent, not w/face ply of birch
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/at least one outer ply of nonconiferous, surface covered
                                                                  44129242               other than clear or transparent
                                                                                         Not blackboard: veneered panels and similar laminated wood, not plywood, w/ at
                                                                  44129252               least one nonconiferous outer ply, nesoi
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood/veneered panel/sim. w/both outer plies of coniferous,
                                                                  44129958               containing at least one layer of particle board
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/both outer plies of conif, no particle board, not surf.-
                                                                  44129961               cov. beyond clear/transp., face ply Parana pine
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/ both outer plies of con if, no particle board, not surf.-
                                                                  44129971               cov. beyond clear/transp., face ply Europe red pine
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/ both outer plies of con if, no particle board, not surf-
                                                                  44129981               cov. beyond clear/transparent, face ply nesoi
                                                                                         Not blackboard: plywood w/ both outer plies of con if, no particle board, surface
                                                                  44129991               covered other than clear or transparent
                                                                                         Not blackboard: veneered panels and similar laminated wood w/ both outer plies of
                                                                  44129997               conif, nesoi
                                                                  44130000               Densified wood, in blocks, plates, strips or profile shapes
                                                                  48202000               Exercise books of paper or paperboard


                                                                                                                                  30
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.055</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00042   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15081


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Printed books, brochures, leaflets and similar printed matter in single sheets,
                                                                  49011000               whether or not folded
                                                                  49019100               Printed dictionaries and encyclopedias and serial installments thereof
                                                                                         Printed books, brochures, leaflets and similar printed matter, other than in single
                                                                  49019900               sheets
                                                                  49021000               Newspapers, journals and periodicals, appearing at least four times a week
                                                                  49029010               Newspaper supplements printed by a gravure process
                                                                                         Newspaper, journals and periodicals, except those appearing at least four times a
                                                                  49029020               week
                                                                  49030000               Children's picture, drawing or coloring books
                                                                  49040000               Music, printed or in manuscript, whether or not bound or illustrated
                                                                                         Maps and hydrographic or similar charts of all kinds, including atlases and
                                                                  49052000               topographical plans, printed in book form
                                                                  49059020               Globes, printed
                                                                                         Other printed maps and hydrographic or similar charts, not globes and not in book
                                                                  49059060               form, nesoi
                                                                                         Hand-drawn original plans and drawings; hand-written texts; photo reproductions
                                                                  49060000               on sensitized paper and carbon copies of the foregoing
                                                                  49111000               Printed trade advertising material, commercial catalogs and the like
                                                                  49119960               Printed matter, nesoi, printed on paper in whole or in part by a lithographic process
                                                                  49119980               Printed matter, nesoi
                                                                  71069110               Silver bullion and dore
                                                                  71081210               Gold, nonmonetary, bullion and dore
                                                                  71101100               Platinum, unwrought or in powder form
                                                                  71101900               Platinum, in semimanufactured forms
                                                                  71102100               Palladium, unwrought or in powder form
                                                                  71102900               Palladium, in semimanufactured forms
                                                                  71103100               Rhodium, unwrought or in powder form
                                                                  71103900               Rhodium, in semimanufactured forms
                                                                  71104100               Iridium, osmium and ruthenium, unwrought or in powder form
                                                                  71104900               Iridium, osmium and ruthenium, in semimanufactured forms
                                                                                         Platinum waste and scrap, incl. metal clad w/ platinum, excluding sweepings
                                                                  71129201               containing other precious metals, other than goods of e-waste heading 8549
                                                                  71189000               Coins, nesoi
                                                                                         Ferromanganese containing by weight more than 2 percent but not more than 4
                                                                  72021110               percent of carbon
                                                                  72021150               Ferromanganese containing by weight more than 4 percent of carbon
                                                                  72021910               Ferromanganese containing by weight not more than 1 percent of carbon
                                                                                         Ferromanganese containing by weight more than 1 percent but not more than 2
                                                                  72021950               percent of carbon
                                                                  72023000               Ferrosilicon manganese
                                                                  72024100               Ferrochromium containing by weight more than 4 percent of carbon


                                                                                                                                  31
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.056</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00043   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15082                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Ferrochromium containing by weight more than 3 percent but not more than 4
                                                                  72024910               percent of carbon
                                                                  72024950               Ferrochromium containing by weight 3 percent or less of carbon
                                                                  72025000               Ferrosilicon chromium
                                                                  72028000               Ferrotungsten and ferrosilicon tungsten
                                                                  72029100               Ferrotitanium and ferrosilicon titanium
                                                                                         Ferroniobium containing by weight less than 0.02 percent of phosphorus or sulfur or
                                                                  72029340               less than 0.4 percent of silicon
                                                                  72029380               Ferroniobium, nesoi
                                                                  72042100               Stainless steel waste and scrap
                                                                  74010000               Copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated copper)
                                                                  74020000               Unrefined copper; copper anodes for electrolytic refining
                                                                  74031100               Refined copper cathodes and sections of cathodes
                                                                  74031200               Refined copper, wire bars
                                                                  74031300               Refined copper, billets
                                                                  74031900               Refined copper, unwrought articles nesoi
                                                                  74032100               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), unwrought nesoi
                                                                  74032200               Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), unwrought nesoi
                                                                  74032901               Copper alloys (o/than copper-zinc, copper-tin alloys), unwrought nesoi
                                                                                         Copper spent anodes; copper waste & scrap containing less than 94% by weight of
                                                                  74040030               copper
                                                                  74040060               Copper, waste and scrap containing 94% or more by weight of copper
                                                                                         Copper master alloys, containing 5% or more but n/more than 15% by weight of
                                                                  74050010               phosphorus
                                                                                         Copper master alloys, not containing 5% or more but n/more than 15% by weight of
                                                                  74050060               phosphorus
                                                                  74061000               Copper, powders of non-lamellar structure
                                                                  74062000               Copper, powders of lamellar structure; copper flakes
                                                                  74071015               Refined copper, hollow profiles
                                                                  74071030               Refined copper, profiles (o/than hollow profiles)
                                                                  74071050               Refined copper, bars and rods
                                                                  74072115               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), hollow profiles
                                                                  74072130               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), profiles (o/than hollow profiles)
                                                                  74072150               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), low fuming brazing rods
                                                                  74072170               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), bars & rods nesoi, having a rectangular cross section
                                                                                         Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), bars & rods nesoi, not having a rectangular cross
                                                                  74072190               section
                                                                  74072916               Copper alloys , hollow profiles
                                                                                         Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel
                                                                  74072934               silver), profiles (o/than hollow profiles)
                                                                  74072938               Copper alloys (o/than cupro-nickel or nickel silver), profiles (o/than hollow profiles)


                                                                                                                                  32
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                   ED07AP25.057</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00044   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                            15083


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel
                                                                  74072940               silver), bars & rods
                                                                  74072950               Copper alloys (o/than brass, cu pro-nickel or nickel silver), bars and rods
                                                                  74081130               Refined copper, wire, w/maximum cross-sectional dimension over 9.5 mm
                                                                                         Refined copper, wire, w/maximum cross-sectional dimension over 6 mm but not
                                                                  74081160               over9.5 mm
                                                                  74081900               Refined copper, wire, w/maximum cross-sectional dimension of 6 mm or less
                                                                  74082100               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), wire
                                                                                         Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel
                                                                  74082210               silver), wire, coated or plated with metal
                                                                                         Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel
                                                                  74082250               silver), wire, not coated or plated w/metal
                                                                                         Copper alloys (o/than brass, cu pro-nickel or nickel-silver), wire, coated or plated with
                                                                  74082910               metal
                                                                                         Copper alloys (o/than brass, cu pro-nickel or nickel-silver), wire, not coated or plated
                                                                  74082950               with metal
                                                                  74091110               Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, in coils, with a thickness of 5 mm or more
                                                                                         Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, in coils, with a thickness over 0.15mm but
                                                                  74091150               less than 5 mm
                                                                                         Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, not in coils, with a thickness of 5 mm or
                                                                  74091910               more
                                                                                         Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, not in coils, with a thickness o/0.15mm but
                                                                  74091950               less than 5 mm & a width of 500 mm or more
                                                                                         Refined copper, plates, sheets and strip, not in coils, with a thickness o/0.15mm but
                                                                  74091990               less than 5 mm & a width of less than 500 mm
                                                                  74092100               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), plates, sheets and strip, in coils
                                                                  74092900               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), plates, sheets and strip, not in coils
                                                                                         Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, in coils. with a thickness of 5
                                                                  74093110               mm or more
                                                                                         Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, in coils, with a thickness
                                                                  74093150               o/0.15mm but less than 5mm & a width of 500mm or more
                                                                                         Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, in coils, w/thickness
                                                                  74093190               o/0.15mm but less than 5mm & a width of less than 500mm
                                                                                         Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, with a thickness of 5 mm or
                                                                  74093910               more
                                                                                         Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, with a thickness o/0.15 but
                                                                  74093950               less than 5 mm & of a width of 500 mm or more
                                                                                         Copper-tin base alloys (bronze), plates, sheets and strip, with a thickness o/0.15 but
                                                                  74093990               less than 5 mm & of a width of less than 500 mm
                                                                                         Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel
                                                                  74094000               silver), plates, sheets and strip, w/thickness o/0.15mm
                                                                                         Copper alloys (o/than brass/bronze/cupro-nickel/nickel silver), plates, sheets & strip,
                                                                  74099010               with thickness of 5 mm or more



                                                                                                                                  33
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                              ED07AP25.058</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00045   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15084                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Copper alloys (o/than brass/bronze/cupro-nickel/nickel silver), plates, sheets & strip,
                                                                  74099050               w/thick. o/0.15mm but less th/5mm & width 500mm+
                                                                                         Copper alloys (o/than brass/bronze/cupro-nickel/nickel silver), plates, sheets & strip,
                                                                  74099090               w/thick. o/0.15mm but less th/5mm & width less 500mm
                                                                  74101100               Refined copper, foil, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, not backed
                                                                  74101200               Copper alloys, foil, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, not backed
                                                                  74102130               Refined copper, clad laminates, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, backed
                                                                  74102160               Refined copper, foil, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, backed
                                                                  74102200               Copper alloys, foil, w/thickness of 0.15 mm or less, backed
                                                                  74111010               Refined copper, tubes and pipes, seamless
                                                                  74111050               Refined copper, tubes and pipes, other than seamless
                                                                  74112110               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), tubes and pipes, seamless
                                                                  74112150               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), tubes and pipes, other than seamless
                                                                                         Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel-
                                                                  74112200               silver), tubes and pipes
                                                                  74112910               Copper alloys (o/than brass/cupro-nickel/nickel-silver), pipes and tubes, seamless
                                                                                         Copper alloys (o/than brass/cupro-nickel/nickel-silver), pipes and tubes, other than
                                                                  74112950               seamless
                                                                  74121000               Refined copper, fittings for tubes and pipes
                                                                  74122000               Copper alloys, fittings for tubes and pipes
                                                                                         Copper, stranded wire, not electrically insulated, not fitted with fittings and not
                                                                  74130010               made up into articles
                                                                                         Copper, cables, plaited bands and the like, not fitted with fittings and not made up
                                                                  74130050               into articles
                                                                                         Copper, stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like, not electrically insulated,
                                                                  74130090               fitted with fittings or made up into articles
                                                                                         Copper or iron/steel w/heads of copper, nails and tacks, drawing pins, staples and
                                                                  74151000               similar articles
                                                                  74152100               Copper, washers (including spring washers)
                                                                                         Copper, rivets, cotters, cotter pins and similar non-threaded articles (o/than
                                                                  74152900               washers)
                                                                  74153305               Copper screws for wood
                                                                  74153310               Muntz or yellow metal copper bolts
                                                                                         Screws (other than wood screws), bolts (other than Muntz or yellow metal) and nuts,
                                                                  74153380               of copper, threaded, nesoi
                                                                  74153900               Copper, screw hooks and other threaded articles, nesoi
                                                                                         Copper & copper alloy table, kitchen, household articles & parts; pot scourers,
                                                                  74181000               scouring & polishing pads, gloves, etc
                                                                  74182010               Copper-zinc base alloys (brass), sanitary ware and parts thereof
                                                                  74182050               Copper (o/than brass), sanitary ware and parts thereof
                                                                  74192000               Copper, articles nesoi, cast, molded, stamped, or forged but not further worked
                                                                                         Copper, Fourdrinier wires, for use in papermaking machines, w/94 or more wires to
                                                                  74198003               the lineal cm

                                                                                                                                  34
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                   ED07AP25.059</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00046   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15085


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                  74198006               Copper cloth, other than Fourdrinier wires, nesoi
                                                                  74198009               Copper, wire grill and netting; expanded metal of copper
                                                                                         Copper, containers a kind normally carried on the person, in the pocket or in the
                                                                  74198015               handbag
                                                                  74198016               Copper, springs
                                                                  74198017               Copper, chain and parts thereof
                                                                  74198030               Copper, articles nesoi, coated or plated with precious metal
                                                                  74198050               Copper, articles nesoi, not coated or plated with precious metal
                                                                  75089050               Nickel, articles of nesoi
                                                                  79011100               Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, containing o/99.99% by weight of zinc
                                                                                         Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, casting-grade zinc, containing at least 97.5% but less
                                                                  79011210               than 99.99% by weight of zinc
                                                                                         Zinc (o/than alloy), unwrought, o/than casting-grade zinc, containing at least 97.5%
                                                                  79011250               but less than 99.99% by wt. of zinc
                                                                  79012000               Zinc alloy, unwrought
                                                                  79020000               Zinc, waste and scrap
                                                                  79070060               Zinc, articles (o/than for household, table or kitchen use), nesoi
                                                                  80011000              Tin (o/than alloy), unwrought
                                                                  80012000              Tin alloy, unwrought
                                                                  80020000              Tin, waste and scrap
                                                                  80070050              Tin, articles nesoi
                                                                  81011000              Tungsten, powders
                                                                  81019700              Tungsten waste and scrap
                                                                                        Tantalum, unwrought (including bars and rods obtained simply by sintering);
                                                                  81032000              tantalum powders
                                                                  81033000              Tantalum waste and scrap
                                                                  81039100              Tantalum, crucibles
                                                                  81039900              Tantalum, articles other than crucibles, nesoi
                                                                  81041100               Magnesium, unwrought, containing at least 99.8 percent by weight of magnesium
                                                                  81041900               Magnesium, unwrought, nesoi
                                                                  81042000               Magnesium, waste and scrap
                                                                                         Magnesium, raspings, turnings and granules graded according to size; magnesium
                                                                  81043000               powders
                                                                  81049000               Magnesium, articles nesoi
                                                                  81052030               Cobalt alloys, unwrought
                                                                  81052060               Cobalt (other than alloys), unwrought
                                                                                         Cobalt, mattes and other intermediate products of cobalt metallurgy; cobalt
                                                                  81052090               powders
                                                                  81053000               Cobalt waste and scrap
                                                                  81059000               Cobalt, articles thereof nesoi




                                                                                                                                  35
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.060</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00047   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15086                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                  HTSUS                  Description
                                                                                         Bismuth (including waste and scrap) and articles thereof, containing more than 99.99
                                                                  81061000               percent of bismuth by weight
                                                                                         Bismuth (including waste and scrap) and articles thereof, containing 99.99 percent of
                                                                  81069000               bismuth or less, nesoi
                                                                  81082000              Titanium, unwrought; titanium powders
                                                                  81083000              Titanium waste and scrap
                                                                  81089030              Titanium, articles nesoi
                                                                  81089060              Titanium, wrought nesoi
                                                                  81101000               Antimony, unwrought; antimony powders
                                                                  81102000               Antimony waste and scrap
                                                                  81109000               Articles of antimony, nesoi
                                                                  81110047               Unwrought manganese flake containing at least 99.5 percent by weight manganese
                                                                  81110049               Unwrought manganese, nesoi
                                                                  81122100               Chromium, unwrought; chromium powders
                                                                  81122200               Chromium waste and scrap
                                                                  81122900               Articles of chromium, nesoi
                                                                  81124110               Rhenium, waste and scrap
                                                                  81124150               Rhenium, unwrought; rhenium powders
                                                                  81124900               Rhenium, articles, nesoi
                                                                  81125900               Articles of thallium, nesoi
                                                                  81129210               Gallium, unwrought; gallium powders
                                                                  81129230               Indium, unwrought; indium powders
                                                                  81129240               Niobium (columbium), unwrought; niobium powders
                                                                  81129260               Germanium, unwrought
                                                                  81129265               Germanium powder, wrought
                                                                  81129910               Germanium nesoi and articles thereof
                                                                  81129991               Articles of gallium, indium, or niobium, nesoi
                                                                  85411000              Diodes, other than photosensitive or light-emitting diodes
                                                                                        Transistors, other than photosensitive transistors, with a dissipation rating of less
                                                                  85412100              than 1 W
                                                                                        Transistors, other than photosensitive transistors, with a dissipation rating of 1 W or
                                                                  85412900              more
                                                                  85413000              Thyristors, diacs and triacs, other than photosensitive devices
                                                                  85414910               Other photosensitive semiconductor diodes, other than light-emitting
                                                                  85414970               Other photosensitive semiconductor transistors
                                                                  85414980               Optical coupled isolators
                                                                  85414995               Other photosensitive semiconductor devices, other than diodes or transistors, nesoi
                                                                  85415100               Other semiconductor-based transducers, other than photosensitive transducers
                                                                                         Other semiconductor devices, other than semiconductor-based transducers, other
                                                                  85415900               than photosensitive devices, nesoi



                                                                                                                                  36
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                  ED07AP25.061</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00048   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                        15087


                                                            HTSUS                      Description
                                                                                       Parts of diodes, transistors, similar semiconductor devices, photosensitive
                                                            85419000                   semiconductor devices, LED's and mounted piezoelectric crystals
                                                            85423100                   Electronic integrated circuits: processors and controllers
                                                            85423200                   Electronic integrated circuits: memories
                                                            85423300                   Electronic intergrated circuits: amplifiers
                                                            85423900                   Electronic integrated circuits: other
                                                            85429000                   Parts of electronic integrated circuits and microassemblies
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.062</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025    Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00049   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15088                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                                           ANNEX III
                                                                     1. Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
                                                                        for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5, 2025,
                                                                        subchapter III of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
                                                                        (HTSUS) is modified by inserting the following new headings in numerical sequence,
                                                                        with the material in the new heading inserted in the columns of the HTS US labeled
                                                                        "Heading/Subheading", "Article Description", "Rates of Duty I -General", "Rates of
                                                                        Duty I-Special" and "Rates of Duty 2", respectively:
                                                                                                                                                                Rates of Duty
                                                         Heading/
                                                                                          Article Description                                               1                           2
                                                        Subheading
                                                                                                                                          General                    Special
                                                        "9903.01.25         Except for products described in                          The duty                  The duty          The duty
                                                                            headings 9903.01.26-9903.01.33, and                       provided in the           provided in the   provided in
                                                                            except as provided for in heading                         applicable                applicable        the applicable
                                                                            9903.01.34, articles the product of                       subheading +              subheading +      subheading
                                                                            any country, except for articles the                      10%                       10%
                                                                            product of a country enumerated in
                                                                            subdivision (v)(xiii) of U.S. note 2 to
                                                                            this subchapter that are entered for
                                                                            consumption, or withdrawn from
                                                                            warehouse for consumption, after
                                                                            12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
                                                                            April 9, 2025, and that were not in
                                                                            transit on the final mode of transit
                                                                            prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight
                                                                            time on April 9, 2025, as provided for
                                                                            in subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to
                                                                            this subchapter . . . . . . .
                                                        9903.01.26          Articles the product of Canada, as       The duty                                   The duty          The duty
                                                                            provided for in subdivision (v)(iv) of provided in the                              provided in the   provided in
                                                                            U.S. note 2 to this subchapter....... applicable                                    applicable        the applicable
                                                                                                                     subheading                                 subheading        subheading
                                                        9903.01.27          Articles the product of Mexico, as       The duty                                   The duty          The duty
                                                                            provided for in subdivision (v)(v) of    provided in the                            provided in the   provided in
                                                                            U.S. note 2 to this subchapter....... applicable                                    applicable        the applicable
                                                                                                                     subheading                                 subheading        subheading
                                                        9903.01.28          Articles the product of any country      The duty                                   The duty          The duty
                                                                            that (1) were loaded onto a vessel at    provided in the                            provided in the   provided in
                                                                            the port of loading and in transit on    applicable                                 applicable        the applicable
                                                                            the final mode of transit prior to entry subheading                                 subheading        subheading
                                                                            into the United States, before 12:01
                                                                            a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5,
                                                                            2025; and (2) are entered for
                                                                            consumption, or withdrawn from
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                   ED07AP25.063</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00050   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                                    15089

                                                                             warehouse for consumption after
                                                                             12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
                                                                             Aoril 5, 2025 .........
                                                        9903.01.29           Articles the product of any country                                                                 The duty
                                                                             identified in general note 3(b)                                                                     provided in
                                                                                                                                                                                 the applicable
                                                                                                                                                                                 subheading
                                                        9903.01.30           Articles that are donations, by        The duty                                  The duty           The duty
                                                                             persons subject to the jurisdiction of provided in the                           provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the United States, such as food,       applicable                                applicable         the applicable
                                                                             clothing, and medicine, intended to    subheading                                subheading         subheading
                                                                             be used to relieve human suffering, as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v)(ii) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter ......

                                                        9903.01.31           Articles that are informational                          The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             materials, including but not limited                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             to, publications, films, posters,                        applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             phonograph records, photographs,                         subheading              subheading         subheading
                                                                             microfilms, microfiche, tapes,
                                                                             compact disks, CD ROMs, artworks,
                                                                             and news wire feeds ..........
                                                         9903.01.32          Articles the product of any country,                     The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             classified in the subheadings                            provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             enumerated in subdivision (v)(iii) of                    applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchaoter .....                     subheading              subheading         subheading
                                                        9903.01.33           Articles of iron or steel, derivative                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             articles of iron or steel, articles of                   provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             aluminum, derivative articles of                         applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             aluminum, passenger vehicles                             subheading              subheading         subheading
                                                                             (sedans, sport utility vehicles,
                                                                             crossover utility vehicles, minivans,
                                                                             and cargo vans) and light trucks and
                                                                             parts of passenger vehicles (sedans,
                                                                             sport utility vehicles, crossover utility
                                                                             vehicles, minivans, and cargo vans)
                                                                             and light trucks, of any country, as
                                                                             provided in subdivision (v)(vi)
                                                                             through (v)(xi) of note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .....
                                                        9903.01.34           The U.S. content of articles the                         The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             product of any country, in which the                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             U.S. content of the article provides at                  applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             least 20 percent of the Customs value                    subheading              subheading         subheading"
                                                                             of the imported article, as provided


                                                                                                                                  2
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                      ED07AP25.064</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00051   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15090                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                                             for in subdivision (v)(xii) of U.S.
                                                                             note 2 to this subcha ter . . . . . . .




                                                                     2. Effective with respect to goods of countries enumerated in subdivision (v)(xiii) of U.S.
                                                                        note 2 to this subchapter entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for
                                                                        consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9, 2025, subchapter III
                                                                        of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) is
                                                                        modified by inserting the following new headings in numerical sequence, with the
                                                                        material in the new heading inserted in the columns of the HTSUS labeled
                                                                        "Heading/Subheading", "Article Description", "Rates of Duty I-General", "Rates of
                                                                        Duty I-Special" and "Rates of Duty 2", respectively:


                                                                                                                                                                    Rates of Duty
                                                          Heading/
                                                                                          Article Description                                                   1                           2
                                                         Subheading
                                                                                                                                              General                    Special
                                                         "9903.01.43         Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                  The duty          The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the           provided in the   provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable                applicable        the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern day light time on April 9,                      subheading +              subheading +      subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          11%                       11%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Cameroon or the Democratic
                                                                             Republic of the Congo, as provided
                                                                             for in subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2
                                                                             to this subchapter . . . . . . .
                                                         9903.01.44          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                  The duty          The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the           provided in the   provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable                applicable        the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +              subheading +      subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          13%                       13%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Chad or Equatorial Guinea, as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter.......




                                                                                                                                      3
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                       ED07AP25.065</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00052   Fmt 4705       Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                                    15091

                                                        9903.01.45           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      14%                     14%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Nigeria, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......
                                                        9903.01.46           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      15%                     15%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Norway or Venezuela, as provided
                                                                             for in subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2
                                                                             to this subchapter.......
                                                        9903.01.47           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      16%                     16%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Mozambique, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......
                                                        9903.01.48           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      17%                     17%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Israel, Malawi, Philippines, or
                                                                             Zambia, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......



                                                                                                                                  4
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                      ED07AP25.066</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00053   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15092                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                         9903.01.49          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          18%                     18%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Nicaragua or Zimbabwe, as provided
                                                                             for in subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2
                                                                             to this subchapter.......
                                                         9903.01.50          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          20%                     20%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of the
                                                                             European Union or Jordan as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter.......
                                                         9903.01.51          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          21%                     21%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Cote d'Ivoire or Namibia, as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter.......
                                                         9903.01.52          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          22%                     22%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Vanuatu, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......




                                                                                                                                      5
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                      ED07AP25.067</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00054   Fmt 4705       Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                                        15093

                                                         9903.01.53          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          24%                     24%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Brunei, Japan, or Malaysia, as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter.......
                                                         9903.01.54          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          25%                     25%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             South Korea, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter. . . . . . .
                                                         9903.01.55          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          26%                     26%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             India, as provided for in subdivision
                                                                             (v) of U.S. note 2 to this subchapter..
                                                                             .....
                                                         9903.01.56          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          27%                     27%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Kazakhstan, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......




                                                                                                                                      6
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.068</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00055   Fmt 4705       Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15094                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                        9903.01.57           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      28%                     28%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Tunisia, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......
                                                        9903.01.58           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      29%                     29%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Pakistan, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......
                                                        9903.01.59           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      30%                     30%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Algeria, Nauru, or South Africa, as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter.......
                                                        9903.01.60           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      31%                     31%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Libya, Moldova, or Switzerland, as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter.......




                                                                                                                                  7
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                  ED07AP25.069</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00056   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                                        15095

                                                         9903.01.61          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          32%                     32%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Angola, Fiji, Indonesia, or Taiwan, as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter.......
                                                         9903.01.62          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          33%                     33%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             North Macedonia, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter. . . . . . .
                                                         9903.01.63          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          34%                     34%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             China, including Hong Kong and
                                                                             Macau, as provided for in subdivision
                                                                             (v) of U.S. note 2 to this subchapter..
                                                                             .....
                                                         9903.01.64          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          35%                     35%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Bosnia and Herzegovina, as provided
                                                                             for in subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2
                                                                             to this subchapter.......



                                                                                                                                      8
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.070</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00057   Fmt 4705       Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15096                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                         9903.01.65          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          36%                     36%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Thailand, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter. ......
                                                         9903.01.66          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          37%                     37%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Bangladesh, Botswana,
                                                                             Liechtenstein, or Serbia, as provided
                                                                             for in subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2
                                                                             to this subchapter.......
                                                         9903.01.67          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          38%                     38%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Guyana, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter. . . . . . .
                                                         9903.01.68          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                        The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                     provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                       subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                          39%                     39%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Iraq, as provided for in subdivision
                                                                             (v) of U.S. note 2 to this subchapter..
                                                                             .....


                                                                                                                                      9
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                      ED07AP25.071</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00058   Fmt 4705       Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                                    15097

                                                         9903.01.69          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      40%                     40%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Mauritius, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter. ......
                                                         9903.01.70          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      41%                     41%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Falkland Islands or Syria, as provided
                                                                             for in subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2
                                                                             to this subchapter.......
                                                         9903.01.71          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      44%                     44%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Myanmar (Burma) or Sri Lanka, as
                                                                             provided for in subdivision (v) of
                                                                             U.S. note 2 to this subchapter.......
                                                         9903.01.72          Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +            subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      46%                     46%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Vietnam, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......




                                                                                                                                  10
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                      ED07AP25.072</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00059   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15098                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                        9903.01.73           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                 The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the          provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable               applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +             subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      47%                      47%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Madagascar, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......
                                                        9903.01.74           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                 The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the          provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable               applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +             subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      48%                      48%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Laos, as provided for in subdivision
                                                                             (v) of U.S. note 2 to this subchapter..
                                                                             .... .
                                                        9903.01.75           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                 The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the          provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable               applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +             subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      49%                      49%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Cambodia, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......
                                                        9903.01.76           Except for goods loaded onto a vessel                    The duty                 The duty           The duty
                                                                             at the port of loading and in transit on                 provided in the          provided in the    provided in
                                                                             the final mode of transit before 12:01                   applicable               applicable         the applicable
                                                                             a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9,                   subheading +             subheading +       subheading
                                                                             2025, except for products described                      50%                      50%
                                                                             in headings 9903.01 .28-9903.01 .33,
                                                                             and except as provided for in heading
                                                                             9903.01.34, articles the product of
                                                                             Lesotho, as provided for in
                                                                             subdivision (v) of U.S. note 2 to this
                                                                             subchapter .......




                                                                                                                                  11
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                   ED07AP25.073</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00060   Fmt 4705    Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                                    15099

                                                                   3. (a) In the event of the termination of actions pursuant to Executive Order 14193 of
                                                                      February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our
                                                                      Northern Border), as amended by Executive Order 14197 of February 3, 2025 (Progress
                                                                      on the Situation at Our Northern Border), and Executive Order 14231 of March 2, 2025
                                                                      (Amendment to Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern
                                                                      Border), effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
                                                                      warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date after
                                                                      such termination, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
                                                                      United States (HTSUS) is modified by inserting the following new headings in numerical
                                                                      sequence, with the material in the new heading inserted in the columns of the HTSUS
                                                                      labeled "Heading/Subheading", "Article Description", "Rates of Duty I-General", "Rates
                                                                      of Duty I-Special" and "Rates of Duty 2", respectively:


                                                                                                                                                                 Rates of Duty
                                                       Heading/
                                                                                        Article Description                                                  1                           2
                                                      Subheading
                                                                                                                       General                                        Special
                                                      "9903.01.35          Except for products described in        The duty                                      The duty          The duty
                                                                           headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,         provided in the                               provided in the   provided in
                                                                           except as provided for in heading       applicable                                    applicable        the applicable
                                                                           9903.01.34, and except as provided in subheading +                                    subheading        subheading
                                                                           headings 9903.01.37 and 9903.01.38, 12%
                                                                           articles the product of Canada that are
                                                                           not eligible for duty-free treatment
                                                                           under the United States-Mexico-
                                                                           Canada Agreement, pursuant to the
                                                                           terms of general note 11 to the
                                                                           HTSUS .......
                                                      9903.01.36           Articles the product of Canada that     The duty                                      The duty          The duty
                                                                           are entered free of duty under the      provided in the                               provided in the   provided in
                                                                           United States-Mexico-Canada             applicable                                    applicable        the applicable
                                                                           Agreement, pursuant to the terms of     subheading                                    subheading        subheading
                                                                           general note 11 to the HTSUS .....
                                                      9903.01.37           Except for articles described in        The duty                                      The duty          The duty
                                                                           heading 9903.01.32, which include       provided in the                               provided in the   provided in
                                                                           potash, energy products of Canada,      applicable                                    applicable        the applicable
                                                                           including crude oil, natural gas, lease subheading                                    subheading        subheading
                                                                           condensates, natural gas liquids,
                                                                           refined petroleum products, uranium,
                                                                           coal, biofuels, geothermal heat, the
                                                                           kinetic movement of flowing water,
                                                                           and critical minerals, as defined by
                                                                           30 U.S.C. 1606(a)(3) ....


                                                                                                                                  12
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                      ED07AP25.074</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00061   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15100                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents


                                                         9903.01.38          Except for products described in                         The duty                  The duty          The duty
                                                                             heading 9903.01.32, articles the                         provided in the           provided in the   provided in
                                                                             products of Canada eligible for duty-                    applicable                applicable        the applicable
                                                                             free treatment under the United                          subheading                subheading        subheading"
                                                                             States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
                                                                             that are parts or components that will
                                                                             be substantially finished in the United
                                                                             States ......


                                                                     (b) Therefore, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
                                                                     for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date after such
                                                                     termination, heading 9903.01.26 is ineffective.




                                                                     4. (a) In the event of the termination of actions pursuant to Executive Order 14194 of
                                                                        February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border), as
                                                                        amended by Executive Order 14198 of February 3, 2025 (Progress on the Situation at
                                                                        Our Southern Border) and Executive Order 14227 of March 2, 2025 (Amendment to
                                                                        Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border), effective with respect to goods
                                                                        entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
                                                                        12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date after such termination, subchapter III of
                                                                        chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) is modified
                                                                        by inserting the following new headings in numerical sequence, with the material in the
                                                                        new heading inserted in the columns of the HTSUS labeled "Heading/Subheading",
                                                                        "Article Description", "Rates of Duty I-General", "Rates of Duty I-Special" and "Rates
                                                                        of Duty 2", respectively:



                                                                                                                                                                Rates of Duty
                                                          Heading/
                                                                                          Article Description                                               1                           2
                                                         Subheading
                                                                                                                        General                                      Special
                                                         "9903.01.39         Except for products described in       The duty                                    The duty          The duty
                                                                             headings 9903.01.28-9903.01.33,        provided in the                             provided in the   provided in
                                                                             except as provided for in heading      applicable                                  applicable        the applicable
                                                                             9903.01.34, and except as provided in subheading +                                 subheading        subheading
                                                                             headings 9903.01.41 and 9903.01.42, 12%
                                                                             articles the product of Mexico that
                                                                             are not eligible for duty-free
                                                                             treatment under the United States-
                                                                             Mexico-Canada Agreement, pursuant
                                                                             to the terms of general note 11 to the
                                                                             HTSUS .......


                                                                                                                                  13
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                   ED07AP25.075</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00062   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                        Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                                    15101

                                                        9903.01.40            Articles the product of Mexico that                      The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                              are entered free of duty under the                       provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                              United States-Mexico-Canada                              applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                              Agreement, pursuant to the terms of                      subheading              subheading         subheading
                                                                              general note 11 to the HTSUS .....
                                                        9903.01.41            Except for articles described in                         The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                              heading 9903.01.32, which include                        provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                              potash, energy products of Mexico,                       applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                              including crude oil, natural gas, lease                  subheading              subheading         subheading
                                                                              condensates, natural gas liquids,
                                                                              refined petroleum products, uranium,
                                                                              coal, biofuels, geothermal heat, the
                                                                              kinetic movement of flowing water,
                                                                              and critical minerals, as defined by
                                                                              30 U.S.C. 1606(a)(3) ....
                                                        9903.01.42            Except for products described in                         The duty                The duty           The duty
                                                                              heading 9903.01.32, articles the                         provided in the         provided in the    provided in
                                                                              products of Mexico eligible for duty-                    applicable              applicable         the applicable
                                                                              free treatment under the United                          subheading              subheading         subheading"
                                                                              States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
                                                                              that are parts or components that will
                                                                              be substantially finished in the United
                                                                              States ......


                                                                      (b) Therefore, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
                                                                      for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the date after such
                                                                      termination, heading 9903.01.27 is ineffective.


                                                                      5. Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
                                                                         for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5, 2025,
                                                                         subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTS US is modified by inserting the following new
                                                                         subdivision (v) to U.S. note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HT SUS in numerical
                                                                         sequence:
                                                                  "(v) (i) Except as provided in headings 9903.01.26-9903.01.33, in heading 9903.01.34, and in
                                                                  subdivisions (v)(ii) through (v)(xii) of this note, and other than products for personal use
                                                                  included in accompanied baggage of persons arriving in the United States, headings 9903.01.25,
                                                                  9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and 9903.01.43-9903.01.76 impose additional advalorem rates of duty
                                                                  on imports of all products. Notwithstanding U.S. note 1 to this subchapter, all products that are
                                                                  subject to the additional ad valorem rate of duty imposed by these headings shall also be subject
                                                                  to the general rates of duty imposed under subheadings in chapters 1 to 97 of the tariff schedule.
                                                                  Except as provided in subdivisions (v)(ii) through (v)(xii) of this note, all products that are
                                                                  subject to the additional ad valorem rates of duty imposed by these headings shall also be subject
                                                                  to any additional duty provided for in this subchapter or subchapter IV of chapter 99. Products
                                                                                                                                   14
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                       ED07AP25.076</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014    18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00063   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15102                  Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                  that are eligible for special tariff treatment under general note 3(c)(i) to the tariff schedule, or
                                                                  that are eligible for temporary duty exemptions or reductions under subchapter II to chapter 99,
                                                                  shall be subject to the additional ad valorem rate of duty imposed by these headings.
                                                                  The additional duties imposed by these headings shall not apply to goods for which entry is
                                                                  properly claimed under a provision of chapter 98 of the tariff schedule pursuant to applicable
                                                                  regulations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection ("CBP"), and whenever CBP agrees that
                                                                  entry under such a provision is appropriate, except for goods entered under heading 9802.00.80;
                                                                  and subheadings 9802.00.40, 9802.00.50, and 9802.00.60. For subheadings 9802.00.40,
                                                                  9802.00.50, and 9802.00.60, the additional duties apply to the value of repairs, alterations, or
                                                                  processing performed, as described in the applicable subheading. For heading 9802.00.80, the
                                                                  additional duties apply to the value of the article assembled abroad, less the cost or value of such
                                                                  products of the United States, as described.
                                                                  Products that are provided for in headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and 9903.01.43-
                                                                  9903.0l.76 shall continue to be subject to antidumping, countervailing, or other duties, taxes,
                                                                  fees, exactions and charges that apply to such products, as well as to the additional ad valorem
                                                                  rate of duty imposed by these headings.
                                                                  (ii) Heading 9903.01.30 covers only products that are donations, by persons subject to the
                                                                  jurisdiction of the United States, of articles, such as food, clothing, and medicine, intended to be
                                                                  used to relieve human suffering, except to the extent that the President determines that such
                                                                  donations (A) would seriously impair his ability to deal with any national emergency declared
                                                                  under section 1701 of title 19 of the U.S. Code, (B) are in response to coercion against the
                                                                  proposed recipient or donor, or (C) would endanger Armed Forces of the United States which are
                                                                  engaged in hostilities or are in a situation where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly
                                                                  indicated by the circumstances.

                                                                  (iii) As provided in heading 9903.01.32, the additional duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25,
                                                                  9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and 9903.01.43-9903.0l.76 shall not apply to products classified in the
                                                                  following subheadings of the HTSUS:

                                                                   0508.00.00           2841.80.00         2926.90.48          2937.23.10          4403.96.01       7202.19.10
                                                                   2504.10.50           2841.90.20         2927.00.40          2937.23.25          4403.97.00       7202.19.50
                                                                   2504.90.00           2841.90.40         2927.00.50          2937.23.50          4403.98.00       7202.30.00
                                                                   2510.10.00           2843.29.01         2928.00.25          2937.29.10          4403.99.01       7202.41.00
                                                                   2510.20.00           2843.30.00         2928.00.30          2937.29.90          4404.10.00       7202.49.10
                                                                   2511.10.10           2843.90.00         2928.00.50          2937.50.00          4404.20.00       7202.49.50
                                                                   2511.10.50           2844.10.10         2929.90.20          2937.90.05          4405.00.00       7202.50.00
                                                                   2519.10.00           2844.10.20         2929.90.50          2937.90.10          4406.11.00       7202.80.00
                                                                   2519.90.10           2844.20.00         2930.20.20          2937.90.20          4406.12.00       7202.91.00
                                                                   2519.90.20           2844.30.20         2930.20.90          2937.90.40          4406.91.00       7202.93.40
                                                                   2524.90.00           2844.30.50         2930.30.60          2937.90.45          4406.92.00       7202.93.80
                                                                   2529.21.00           2844.43.00         2930.90.29          2937.90.90          4407.11.00       7204.21.00
                                                                   2529.22.00           2845.90.01         2930.90.49          2938.10.00          4407.12.00       7401.00.00


                                                                                                                                   15
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                  ED07AP25.077</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014    18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00064   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                              15103

                                                                          2530.20.10           2846.10.00          2930.90.92          2938.90.00        4407.13.00        7402.00.00
                                                                          2530.20.20           2846.90.20          2931.49.00          2939.11.00        4407.14.00        7403.11.00
                                                                          2530.90.10           2846.90.40          2931.53.00          2939.19.10        4407.19.00        7403.12.00
                                                                          2530.90.20           2846.90.80          2931.90.22          2939.19.20        4407.21.00        7403.13.00
                                                                          2530.90.80           2849.20.10          2931.90.90          2939.19.50        4407.22.00        7403.19.00
                                                                          2602.00.00           2849.20.20          2932.14.00          2939.20.00        4407.23.01        7403.21.00
                                                                          2603.00.00           2849.90.30          2932.19.51          2939.30.00        4407.25.00        7403.22.00
                                                                          2605.00.00           2853.90.10          2932.20.20          2939.41.00        4407.26.00        7403.29.01
                                                                          2606.00.00           2853.90.90          2932.20.30          2939.42.00        4407.27.00        7404.00.30
                                                                          2608.00.00           2903.45.10          2932.20.50          2939.44.00        4407.28.00        7404.00.60
                                                                          2610.00.00           2903.59.90          2932.99.61          2939.45.00        4407.29.02        7405.00.10
                                                                          2611.00.30           2903.69.90          2932.99.70          2939.49.03        4407.91.00        7405.00.60
                                                                          2611.00.60           2903.78.00          2932.99.90          2939.59.00        4407.92.00        7406.10.00
                                                                          2612.10.00           2903.79.90          2933.11.00          2939.62.00        4407.93.00        7406.20.00
                                                                          2614.00.30           2903.89.15          2933.19.35          2939.63.00        4407.94.00        7407.10.15
                                                                          2614.00.60           2903.89.20          2933.19.45          2939.69.00        4407.95.00        7407.10.30
                                                                          2615.90.30           2903.89.70          2933.19.90          2939.72.00        4407.96.00        7407.10.50
                                                                          2615.90.60           2903.92.00          2933.21.00          2939.79.00        4407.97.00        7407.21.15
                                                                          2616.10.00           2904.99.40          2933.29.20          2939.80.00        4407.99.02        7407.21.30
                                                                          2617.10.00           2905.29.90          2933.29.35          2940.00.60        4408.10.01        7407.21.50
                                                                          2620.30.00           2905.39.90          2933.29.43          2941.10.10        4408.31.01        7407.21.70
                                                                          2620.99.50           2905.59.10          2933.29.45          2941.10.20        4408.39.02        7407.21.90
                                                                          2701.11.00           2905.59.90          2933.29.90          2941.10.30        4408.90.01        7407.29.16
                                                                          2701.12.00           2906.19.50          2933.33.01          2941.10.50        4409.10.05        7407.29.34
                                                                          2701.19.00           2906.29.60          2933.34.00          2941.20.10        4409.10.10        7407.29.38
                                                                          2701.20.00           2907.29.90          2933.35.00          2941.20.50        4409.10.20        7407.29.40
                                                                          2702.10.00           2908.19.60          2933.37.00          2941.30.00        4409.10.40        7407.29.50
                                                                          2702.20.00           2909.19.18          2933.39.08          2941.40.00        4409.10.45        7408.11.30
                                                                          2703.00.00           2909.20.00          2933.39.10          2941.50.00        4409.10.50        7408.11.60
                                                                          2704.00.00           2909.30.60          2933.39.20          2941.90.10        4409.10.60        7408.19.00
                                                                          2705.00.00           2909.49.10          2933.39.21          2941.90.30        4409.10.65        7408.21.00
                                                                          2706.00.00           2909.49.15          2933.39.23          2941.90.50        4409.10.90        7408.22.10
                                                                          2707.10.00           2909.49.20          2933.39.25          2942.00.05        4409.21.05        7408.22.50
                                                                          2707.20.00           2909.49.60          2933.39.27          2942.00.35        4409.21.90        7408.29.10
                                                                          2707.30.00           2909.50.40          2933.39.31          2942.00.50        4409.22.05        7408.29.50
                                                                          2707.40.00           2909.50.45          2933.39.41          3001.20.00        4409.22.10        7409.11.10
                                                                          2707.50.00           2909.50.50          2933.39.61          3001.90.01        4409.22.25        7409.11.50
                                                                          2707.91.00           2912.19.50          2933.39.92          3002.12.00        4409.22.40        7409.19.10
                                                                          2707.99.10           2912.49.26          2933.41.00          3002.13.00        4409.22.50        7409.19.50
                                                                          2707.99.20           2914.19.00          2933.49.08          3002.14.00        4409.22.60        7409.19.90
                                                                          2707.99.40           2914.40.90          2933.49.10          3002.15.00        4409.22.65        7409.21.00
                                                                          2707.99.51           2914.50.30          2933.49.15          3002.41.00        4409.22.90        7409.29.00
                                                                          2707.99.55           2914.50.50          2933.49.17          3002.42.00        4409.29.06        7409.31.10

                                                                                                                                           16
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                ED07AP25.078</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00065   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15104                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                          2707.99.59           2914.62.00          2933.49.20          3002.49.00        4409.29.11        7409.31.50
                                                                          2707.99.90           2914.69.21          2933.49.26          3002.51.00        4409.29.26        7409.31.90
                                                                          2708.10.00           2914.69.90          2933.49.30          3002.59.00        4409.29.41        7409.39.10
                                                                          2708.20.00           2914.79.40          2933.49.60          3002.90.10        4409.29.51        7409.39.50
                                                                          2709.00.10           2915.29.30          2933.49.70          3002.90.52        4409.29.61        7409.39.90
                                                                          2709.00.20           2915.39.31          2933.52.10          3003.10.00        4409.29.66        7409.40.00
                                                                          2710.12.15           2915.39.35          2933.52.90          3003.20.00        4409.29.91        7409.90.10
                                                                          2710.12.18           2915.39.47          2933.53.00          3003.39.10        4410.11.00        7409.90.50
                                                                          2710.12.25           2915.39.90          2933.54.00          3003.39.50        4410.12.00        7409.90.90
                                                                          2710.12.45           2915.90.10          2933.59.10          3003.41.00        4410.19.00        7410.11.00
                                                                          2710.12.90           2915.90.14          2933.59.15          3003.42.00        4410.90.00        7410.12.00
                                                                          2710.19.06           2915.90.18          2933.59.18          3003.49.00        4411.12.10        7410.21.30
                                                                          2710.19.11           2915.90.20          2933.59.21          3003.90.01        4411.12.20        7410.21.60
                                                                          2710.19.16           2915.90.50          2933.59.22          3004.10.10        4411.12.30        7410.22.00
                                                                          2710.19.24           2916.19.30          2933.59.36          3004.10.50        4411.12.60        7411.10.10
                                                                          2710.19.25           2916.19.50          2933.59.46          3004.20.00        4411.12.90        7411.10.50
                                                                          2710.19.26           2916.20.50          2933.59.53          3004.31.00        4411.13.10        7411.21.10
                                                                          2710.19.30           2916.31.50          2933.59.59          3004.32.00        4411.13.20        7411.21.50
                                                                          2710.19.35           2916.39.46          2933.59.70          3004.39.00        4411.13.30        7411.22.00
                                                                          2710.19.40           2916.39.79          2933.59.80          3004.41.00        4411.13.60        7411.29.10
                                                                          2710.19.45           2917.13.00          2933.59.85          3004.42.00        4411.13.90        7411.29.50
                                                                          2710.19.90           2917.19.10          2933.59.95          3004.49.00        4411.14.10        7412.10.00
                                                                          2710.20.05           2917.19.70          2933.69.60          3004.50.10        4411.14.20        7412.20.00
                                                                          2710.20.10           2917.34.01          2933.72.00          3004.50.20        4411.14.30        7413.00.10
                                                                          2710.20.15           2917.39.30          2933.79.08          3004.50.30        4411.14.60        7413.00.50
                                                                          2710.20.25           2918.11.51          2933.79.15          3004.50.40        4411.14.90        7413.00.90
                                                                          2710.91.00           2918.13.50          2933.79.85          3004.50.50        4411.92.10        7415.10.00
                                                                          2710.99.05           2918.16.50          2933.91.00          3004.60.00        4411.92.20        7415.21.00
                                                                          2710.99.10           2918.19.60          2933.99.01          3004.90.10        4411.92.30        7415.29.00
                                                                          2710.99.16           2918.19.90          2933.99.02          3004.90.92        4411.92.40        7415.33.05
                                                                          2710.99.21           2918.22.10          2933.99.05          3006.30.10        4411.93.10        7415.33.10
                                                                          2710.99.31           2918.22.50          2933.99.06          3006.30.50        4411.93.20        7415.33.80
                                                                          2710.99.32           2918.23.30          2933.99.08          3006.60.00        4411.93.30        7415.39.00
                                                                          2710.99.39           2918.23.50          2933.99.11          3006.70.00        4411.93.60        7418.10.00
                                                                          2710.99.45           2918.29.20          2933.99.12          3006.93.10        4411.93.90        7418.20.10
                                                                          2710.99.90           2918.29.65          2933.99.16          3006.93.20        4411.94.00        7418.20.50
                                                                          2711.11.00           2918.29.75          2933.99.17          3006.93.50        4412.10.05        7419.20.00
                                                                          2711.12.00           2918.30.25          2933.99.22          3006.93.60        4412.10.90        7419.80.03
                                                                          2711.13.00           2918.30.30          2933.99.24          3006.93.80        4412.31.06        7419.80.06
                                                                          2711.14.00           2918.30.90          2933.99.26          3104.20.00        4412.31.26        7419.80.09
                                                                          2711.19.00           2918.99.30          2933.99.42          3104.30.00        4412.31.42        7419.80.15
                                                                          2711.21.00           2918.99.43          2933.99.46          3104.90.01        4412.31.45        7419.80.16
                                                                          2711.29.00           2918.99.47          2933.99.51          3105.10.00        4412.31.48        7419.80.17

                                                                                                                                           17
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                        ED07AP25.079</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00066   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                              15105

                                                                          2712.10.00           2918.99.50          2933.99.53          3105.20.00         4412.31.52       7419.80.30
                                                                          2712.20.00           2919.90.30          2933.99.55          3105.60.00         4412.31.61       7419.80.50
                                                                          2712.90.10           2919.90.50          2933.99.58          3203.00.80         4412.31.92       7508.90.50
                                                                          2712.90.20           2920.90.51          2933.99.61          3204.13.80         4412.33.06       7901.11.00
                                                                          2713.11.00           2921.19.11          2933.99.65          3204.17.20         4412.33.26       7901.12.10
                                                                          2713.12.00           2921.19.61          2933.99.70          3204.18.00         4412.33.32       7901.12.50
                                                                          2713.20.00           2921.29.00          2933.99.75          3206.11.00         4412.33.57       7901.20.00
                                                                          2713.90.00           2921.30.10          2933.99.79          3206.19.00         4412.34.26       7902.00.00
                                                                          2714.10.00           2921.30.50          2933.99.82          3402.42.10         4412.34.32       7907.00.60
                                                                          2714.90.00           2921.42.90          2933.99.85          3402.42.20         4412.34.57       8001.10.00
                                                                          2715.00.00           2921.46.00          2933.99.89          3402.42.90         4412.39.10       8001.20.00
                                                                          2716.00.00           2921.49.38          2933.99.90          3606.90.30         4412.39.30       8002.00.00
                                                                          2801.20.00           2921.49.43          2933.99.97          3808.94.10         4412.39.40       8007.00.50
                                                                          2804.29.00           2921.49.45          2934.10.10          3808.94.50         4412.39.50       8101.10.00
                                                                          2804.50.00           2921.49.50          2934.10.20          3818.00.00         4412.41.00       8101.97.00
                                                                          2804.61.00           2921.59.80          2934.10.90          3824.91.00         4412.42.00       8103.20.00
                                                                          2804.80.00           2922.11.00          2934.20.40          3824.99.29         4412.49.00       8103.30.00
                                                                          2804.90.00           2922.14.00          2934.20.80          3824.99.49         4412.51.10       8103.91.00
                                                                          2805.19.10           2922.19.09          2934.30.23          3824.99.55         4412.51.31       8103.99.00
                                                                          2805.19.20           2922.19.20          2934.30.27          3824.99.93         4412.51.41       8104.11.00
                                                                          2805.19.90           2922.19.33          2934.30.43          3901.90.90         4412.51.51       8104.19.00
                                                                          2805.30.00           2922.19.60          2934.30.50          3902.90.00         4412.52.10       8104.20.00
                                                                          2811.11.00           2922.19.70          2934.91.00          3904.61.00         4412.52.31       8104.30.00
                                                                          2811.19.10           2922.19.90          2934.92.00          3905.91.10         4412.52.41       8104.90.00
                                                                          2811.29.10           2922.19.96          2934.99.01          3905.99.80         4412.52.51       8105.20.30
                                                                          2811.29.20           2922.29.27          2934.99.03          3906.90.50         4412.59.80       8105.20.60
                                                                          2812.19.00           2922.29.61          2934.99.05          3907.10.00         4412.59.90       8105.20.90
                                                                          2813.90.10           2922.29.81          2934.99.06          3907.21.00         4412.59.95       8105.30.00
                                                                          2815.20.00           2922.31.00          2934.99.07          3907.29.00         4412.91.06       8105.90.00
                                                                          2816.10.00           2922.39.25          2934.99.08          3907.30.00         4412.91.10       8106.10.00
                                                                          2816.40.10           2922.39.45          2934.99.09          3907.61.00         4412.91.31       8106.90.00
                                                                          2816.40.20           2922.39.50          2934.99.11          3907.69.00         4412.91.41       8108.20.00
                                                                          2817.00.00           2922.41.00          2934.99.12          3907.70.00         4412.91.51       8108.30.00
                                                                          2818.10.10           2922.42.50          2934.99.15          3907.99.50         4412.92.07       8108.90.30
                                                                          2818.10.20           2922.44.00          2934.99.16          3908.10.00         4412.92.11       8108.90.60
                                                                          2818.20.00           2922.49.10          2934.99.18          3910.00.00         4412.92.31       8110.10.00
                                                                          2818.30.00           2922.49.26          2934.99.20          3911.90.25         4412.92.42       8110.20.00
                                                                          2820.10.00           2922.49.30          2934.99.30          3911.90.91         4412.92.52       8110.90.00
                                                                          2821.10.00           2922.49.37          2934.99.39          3912.31.00         4412.99.58       8111.00.47
                                                                          2821.20.00           2922.49.49          2934.99.44          3912.39.00         4412.99.61       8111.00.49
                                                                          2822.00.00           2922.49.80          2934.99.47          3912.90.00         4412.99.71       8112.21.00
                                                                          2823.00.00           2922.50.07          2934.99.70          3913.90.20         4412.99.81       8112.22.00
                                                                          2825.20.00           2922.50.10          2934.99.90          3913.90.50         4412.99.91       8112.29.00

                                                                                                                                           18
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                                ED07AP25.080</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00067   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15106                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                    2825.50.30           2922.50.11            2935.50.00        3914.00.60          4412.99.97          8112.41.10
                                                                    2825.60.00           2922.50.13            2935.90.06        4001.10.00          4413.00.00          8112.41.50
                                                                    2825.80.00           2922.50.14            2935.90.10        4001.21.00          4820.20.00          8112.49.00
                                                                    2825.90.15           2922.50.17            2935.90.13        4001.22.00          4901.10.00          8112.59.00
                                                                    2825.90.30           2922.50.25            2935.90.15        4001.29.00          4901.91.00          8112.92.10
                                                                    2825.90.90           2922.50.35            2935.90.20        4001.30.00          4901.99.00          8112.92.30
                                                                    2826.12.00           2922.50.40            2935.90.30        4401.11.00          4902.10.00          8112.92.40
                                                                    2826.30.00           2922.50.50            2935.90.32        4401.12.00          4902.90.10          8112.92.60
                                                                    2826.90.90           2923.10.00            2935.90.33        4401.21.00          4902.90.20          8112.92.65
                                                                    2827.31.00           2923.20.20            2935.90.42        4401.22.00          4903.00.00          8112.99.10
                                                                    2827.39.45           2923.90.01            2935.90.48        4401.31.00          4904.00.00          8112.99.91
                                                                    2827.39.60           2924.11.00            2935.90.60        4401.32.00          4905.20.00          8541.10.00
                                                                    2827.39.90           2924.19.11            2935.90.75        4401.39.42          4905.90.20          8541.21.00
                                                                    2827.41.00           2924.19.80            2935.90.95        4401.41.00          4905.90.60          8541.29.00
                                                                    2827.49.50           2924.21.16            2936.21.00        4401.49.00          4906.00.00          8541.30.00
                                                                    2827.59.51           2924.21.50            2936.22.00        4402.10.00          4911.10.00          8541.49.10
                                                                    2827.60.10           2924.29.10            2936.23.00        4402.20.00          4911.99.60          8541.49.70
                                                                    2827.60.51           2924.29.62            2936.24.01        4402.90.01          4911.99.80          8541.49.80
                                                                    2833.21.00           2924.29.71            2936.25.00        4403.11.00          7106.91.10          8541.49.95
                                                                    2833.25.00           2924.29.77            2936.26.00        4403.12.00          7108.12.10          8541.51.00
                                                                    2833.27.00           2924.29.95            2936.27.00        4403.21.01          7110.11.00          8541.59.00
                                                                    2833.29.10           2925.12.00            2936.28.00        4403.22.01          7110.19.00          8541.90.00
                                                                    2833.29.45           2925.19.42            2936.29.10        4403.23.01          7110.21.00          8542.31.00
                                                                    2833.29.51           2925.19.91            2936.29.16        4403.24.01          7110.29.00          8542.32.00
                                                                    2834.21.00           2925.21.00            2936.29.20        4403.25.01          7110.31.00          8542.33.00
                                                                    2834.29.20           2925.29.20            2936.29.50        4403.26.01          7110.39.00          8542.39.00
                                                                    2834.29.51           2925.29.60            2936.90.01        4403.42.00          7110.41.00          8542.90.00
                                                                    2836.60.00           2925.29.90            2937.11.00        4403.49.02          7110.49.00
                                                                    2836.91.00           2926.30.10            2937.12.00        4403.91.00          7112.92.01
                                                                    2836.92.00           2926.40.00            2937.19.00        4403.93.01          7118.90.00
                                                                    2836.99.10           2926.90.14            2937.21.00        4403.94.01          7202.11.10
                                                                    2836.99.50           2926.90.43            2937.22.00        4403.95.01          7202.11.50



                                                                  (iv) As provided in 9903.01.26, the additional duties imposed by heading 9903.01.25 shall not
                                                                  apply to any products of Canada, including those products of Canada entered free of duty as
                                                                  under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, including any treatment set forth in
                                                                  subchapter XXIII of chapter 98 and subchapter XXII of chapter 99 of the HTSUS.

                                                                  (v) As provided in 9903.01.27, the additional duties imposed by heading 9903.01.25 shall not
                                                                  apply to any products of Mexico, including those products of Mexico entered free of duty as
                                                                  under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, including any treatment set forth in
                                                                  subchapter XXIII of chapter 98 and subchapter XXII of chapter 99 of the HTSUS.


                                                                                                                                       19
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                      ED07AP25.081</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000    Frm 00068   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM    07APE1


                                                                        Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15107

                                                                  (vi) The additional duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and
                                                                  9903.01.43-9903.01.76 shall not apply to products of iron or steel provided for in headings
                                                                  9903.81.87 and 9903.81.88.

                                                                  (vii) The additional duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and
                                                                  9903.01.43-9903.01.76 shall not apply to derivative iron or steel products provided for in
                                                                  headings 9903.81.89, 9903.81.90, 9903.81.91, 9903.81.92 and 9903.81.93.

                                                                  (viii) The additional duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and
                                                                  9903.01.43-9903.01.76 shall not apply to products of aluminum provided for in heading
                                                                  9903.85.02.

                                                                  (ix) The additional duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and
                                                                  9903.01.43-9903.01.76 shall not apply to derivative aluminum products provided for in headings
                                                                  9903.85.04, 9903.85.07, 9903.85.08 and 9903.85.09.

                                                                  (x) The additional duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and
                                                                  9903.01.43-9903.01.76 shall not apply to passenger vehicles (sedans, sport utility vehicles,
                                                                  crossover utility vehicles, minivans, and cargo vans) and light trucks provided for in headings
                                                                  9903.94.01 and 9903.94.03.

                                                                  (xi) The additional duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and
                                                                  9903.01.43-9903.01.76 shall not apply to parts of passenger vehicles (sedans, sport utility
                                                                  vehicles, crossover utility vehicles, minivans, and cargo vans) and parts oflight trucks provided
                                                                  for in heading 9903.94.05.

                                                                  (xii) The additional duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and
                                                                  9903.01.43-9903.01.76 shall not apply to the U.S. content of an article, provided at least 20% of
                                                                  the customs value, as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a, of the product is U.S. originating,
                                                                  consistent with heading 9903.01 .34. For greater certainty, with respect to an article for which at
                                                                  least 20% of the customs value is U.S. originating, consistent with 9903.01.34, the additional
                                                                  duties imposed by headings 9903.01.25, 9903.01.35, 9903.01.39, and 9903.01.43-9903.01.76,
                                                                  shall apply only to the non-U.S. content of such article. Heading 9903.01.34 covers only the
                                                                  U.S. content portion of articles described by that heading. The term "U.S. content" refers to the
                                                                  value of an article attributable to the components wholly obtained, produced entirely, or
                                                                  substantially transformed in the United States.

                                                                  (xiii) Heading 9903.01.25 shall not apply to articles the product of the following countries
                                                                  entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m.
                                                                  eastern daylight time on April 9, 2025, and that were not in transit on the final mode of transit
                                                                  prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9, 2025:

                                                                            1)          Algeria, subject to an additional duty of 30%
                                                                            2)          Angola, subject to an additional duty of 32%
                                                                            3)          Bangladesh, subject to an additional duty of 37%
                                                                            4)          Bosnia and Herzegovina, subject to an additional duty of 35%


                                                                                                                                   20
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                          ED07AP25.082</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014    18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00069   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                 15108                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                        5)         Botswana, subject to an additional duty of 37%
                                                                        6)         Brunei, subject to an additional duty of 24%
                                                                        7)         Cambodia, subject to an additional duty of 49%
                                                                        8)         Cameroon, subject to an additional duty of 11 %
                                                                        9)         Chad, subject to an additional duty of 13%
                                                                        10)        China, including Hong Kong and Macau, subject to an additional duty of 34%
                                                                        11)        Cote d'Ivoire, subject to an additional duty of 21 %
                                                                        12)        Democratic Republic of the Congo, subject to an additional duty of 11 %
                                                                        13)        Equatorial Guinea, subject to an additional duty of 13%
                                                                        14)        European Union, subject to an additional duty of 20%
                                                                        15)        Falkland Islands, subject to an additional duty of 41 %
                                                                        16)        Fiji, subject to an additional duty of 32%
                                                                        17)        Guyana, subject to an additional duty of 38%
                                                                        18)        India, subject to an additional duty of26%
                                                                        19)        Indonesia, subject to an additional duty of 32%
                                                                        20)        Iraq, subject to an additional duty of 39%
                                                                        21)        Israel, subject to an additional duty of 17%
                                                                        22)        Japan, subject to an additional duty of 24%
                                                                        23)        Jordan, subject to an additional duty of20%
                                                                        24)        Kazakhstan, subject to an additional duty of 27%
                                                                        25)        Laos, subject to an additional duty of 48%
                                                                        26)        Lesotho, subject to an additional duty of 50%
                                                                        27)        Libya, subject to an additional duty of 31 %
                                                                        28)        Liechtenstein, subject to an additional duty of 37%
                                                                        29)        Madagascar, subject to an additional duty of 47%
                                                                        30)        Malawi, subject to an additional duty of 17%
                                                                        31)        Malaysia, subject to an additional duty of 24%
                                                                        32)        Mauritius, subject to an additional duty of 40%
                                                                        33)        Moldova, subject to an additional duty of 31 %
                                                                        34)        Mozambique, subject to an additional duty of 16%
                                                                        35)        Myanmar (Burma), subject to an additional duty of 44%
                                                                        36)        Namibia, subject to an additional duty of 21 %
                                                                        37)        Nauru, subject to an additional duty of 30%
                                                                        38)        Nicaragua, subject to an additional duty of 18%
                                                                        39)        Nigeria, subject to an additional duty of 14%
                                                                        40)        North Macedonia, subject to an additional duty of 33%
                                                                        41)        Norway, subject to an additional duty of 15%
                                                                        42)        Pakistan, subject to an additional duty of 29%
                                                                        43)        Philippines, subject to an additional duty of 17%
                                                                        44)        Serbia, subject to an additional duty of 37%
                                                                        45)        South Africa, subject to an additional duty of 30%
                                                                        46)        South Korea, subject to an additional duty of 25%
                                                                        47)        Sri Lanka, subject to an additional duty of 44%
                                                                        48)        Switzerland, subject to an additional duty of 31 %
                                                                        49)        Syria, subject to an additional duty of 41 %
                                                                        50)        Taiwan, subject to an additional duty of 32%

                                                                                                                                21
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                                                                                                                                                 ED07AP25.083</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00070   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 65 / Monday, April 7, 2025 / Presidential Documents                       15109

                                                                                             51)       Thailand, subject to an additional duty of36%
                                                                                             52)       Tunisia, subject to an additional duty of 28%
                                                                                             53)       Vanuatu, subject to an additional duty of 22%
                                                                                             54)       Venezuela, subject to an additional duty of 15%
                                                                                             55)       Vietnam, subject to an additional duty of 46%
                                                                                             56)       Zambia, subject to an additional duty of 17%
                                                                                             57)       Zimbabwe, subject to an additional duty of 18%"




                                                                                                                                                    22
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC2




                                                 [FR Doc. 2025–06063

                                                 Filed 4–4–25; 11:15 am]
                                                 Billing code 7020–02–C
                                                                                                                                                                                         ED07AP25.084</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   18:04 Apr 04, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00071   Fmt 4705   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\07APE1.SGM   07APE1
