                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 74 / Friday, April 18, 2025 / Presidential Documents                      16437

                                                                                                     Presidential Documents



                                                                                                     Executive Order 14272 of April 15, 2025

                                                                                                     Ensuring National Security and Economic Resilience Through
                                                                                                     Section 232 Actions on Processed Critical Minerals and De-
                                                                                                     rivative Products

                                                                                                     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
                                                                                                     laws of the United States of America, including the Trade Expansion Act
                                                                                                     of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862) (the ‘‘Act’’), it is hereby ordered:
                                                                                                     Section 1. Policy. A strong national defense depends on a robust economy
                                                                                                     and price stability, a resilient manufacturing and defense industrial base,
                                                                                                     and secure domestic supply chains. Critical minerals, including rare earth
                                                                                                     elements, in the form of processed minerals are essential raw materials
                                                                                                     and critical production inputs required for economic and national security.
                                                                                                     Critical mineral oxides, oxalates, salts, and metals (processed critical min-
                                                                                                     erals), as well as their derivative products—the manufactured goods incor-
                                                                                                     porating them—are similarly foundational to United States national security
                                                                                                     and defense.
                                                                                                     But processed critical minerals and their derivative products face significant
                                                                                                     global supply chain vulnerabilities and market distortions due to reliance
                                                                                                     on a small number of foreign suppliers. These vulnerabilities and distortions
                                                                                                     have led to significant United States import dependencies. The dependence
                                                                                                     of the United States on imports and the vulnerability of our supply chains
                                                                                                     raises the potential for risks to national security, defense readiness, price
                                                                                                     stability, and economic prosperity and resilience.
                                                                                                     Processed critical minerals and their derivative products are essential for
                                                                                                     economic security and resilience because they underpin key industries, drive
                                                                                                     technological innovation, and support critical infrastructure vital for a mod-
                                                                                                     ern American economy. They are key building blocks of our manufacturing
                                                                                                     base and foundational to sectors ranging from transportation and energy
                                                                                                     to telecommunications and advanced manufacturing. These economic sectors
                                                                                                     are, moreover, foundational to America’s national security.
                                                                                                     Processed critical minerals and their derivative products are essential for
                                                                                                     national security because they are foundational to military infrastructure,
                                                                                                     energy infrastructure, and advanced defense systems and technologies. They
                                                                                                     are key building blocks of our defense industrial base and integral to applica-
                                                                                                     tions such as jet engines, missile guidance systems, advanced computing,
                                                                                                     radar systems, advanced optics, and secure communications equipment.
                                                                                                     The United States manufacturing and defense industrial bases remain de-
                                                                                                     pendent on foreign sources for processed critical mineral products. Many
                                                                                                     of these foreign sources are at risk of serious, sustained, and long-term
                                                                                                     supply chain shocks. Should the United States lose access to processed
                                                                                                     critical minerals from foreign sources, the United States commercial and
                                                                                                     defense manufacturing base for derivative products could face significant
                                                                                                     shortages and an inability to meet demand.
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC1




                                                                                                     Associated risks arise from a variety of factors. First, global supply chains
                                                                                                     are prone to disruption from geopolitical tensions, wars, natural disasters,
                                                                                                     pandemics, and trade conflicts.
                                                                                                     Second, major global foreign producers of processed critical minerals have
                                                                                                     engaged in widespread price manipulation, overcapacity, arbitrary export
                                                                                                     restrictions, and the exploitation of their supply chain dominance to distort
                                                                                                     world markets and thereby gain geopolitical and economic leverage over


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:46 Apr 17, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00001   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\18APE1.SGM   18APE1


                                                 16438                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 74 / Friday, April 18, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                     the United States and other competitors that depend on processed critical
                                                                                                     minerals to manufacture derivative products essential to their economic
                                                                                                     and national security and national defense. Therefore, the import dependence
                                                                                                     of the United States on processed critical minerals from foreign sources
                                                                                                     may pose a serious national security risk to the United States economy
                                                                                                     and defense preparedness.
                                                                                                     Third, the risks arising from America’s import dependence on processed
                                                                                                     critical minerals also extend to derivative products that are integral to the
                                                                                                     United States economy and economic and national security. For the United
                                                                                                     States to manufacture derivative products, it must have ready access to
                                                                                                     an affordable, resilient, and sustainable supply of processed critical minerals.
                                                                                                     Simultaneously, a resilient and sustainable manufacturing base for derivative
                                                                                                     products is vital to creating a stable demand base for processed critical
                                                                                                     minerals. Both must coexist to ensure economic stability and national secu-
                                                                                                     rity.
                                                                                                     Finally, overreliance on a small number of geographic regions amplifies
                                                                                                     the risks posed by geopolitical instability and regional disruptions.
                                                                                                     In light of the above risks and realities, an investigation under section
                                                                                                     232 of the Act (section 232) is necessary to determine whether imports
                                                                                                     of processed critical minerals and their derivative products threaten to impair
                                                                                                     national security.
                                                                                                     Sec. 2. Definitions. As used in this order:
                                                                                                        (a) The term ‘‘critical minerals’’ means those minerals included in the
                                                                                                     ‘‘Critical Minerals List’’ published by the United States Geological Survey
                                                                                                     (USGS) pursuant to section 7002(c) of the Energy Act of 2020 (30 U.S.C.
                                                                                                     1606) at 87 FR 10381, or any subsequent such list. The term ‘‘critical
                                                                                                     minerals’’ also includes uranium.
                                                                                                       (b) The term ‘‘rare earth elements’’ means the 17 elements identified
                                                                                                     as rare earth elements by the Department of Energy (DOE) in the April
                                                                                                     2020 publication titled ‘‘Critical Materials Rare Earths Supply Chain.’’ The
                                                                                                     term also includes any additional elements that either the USGS or DOE
                                                                                                     determines in any subsequent official report or publication should be consid-
                                                                                                     ered rare earth elements.
                                                                                                        (c) The term ‘‘processed critical minerals’’ refers to critical minerals that
                                                                                                     have undergone the activities that occur after critical mineral ore is extracted
                                                                                                     from a mine up through its conversion into a metal, metal powder or
                                                                                                     a master alloy. These activities specifically occur beginning from the point
                                                                                                     at which ores are converted into oxide concentrates; separated into oxides;
                                                                                                     and converted into metals, metal powders, and master alloys.
                                                                                                        (d) The term ‘‘derivative products’’ includes all goods that incorporate
                                                                                                     processed critical minerals as inputs. These goods include semi-finished
                                                                                                     goods (such as semiconductor wafers, anodes, and cathodes) as well as
                                                                                                     final products (such as permanent magnets, motors, electric vehicles, bat-
                                                                                                     teries, smartphones, microprocessors, radar systems, wind turbines and their
                                                                                                     components, and advanced optical devices).
                                                                                                     Sec. 3. Section 232 Investigation. (a) The Secretary of Commerce shall initiate
                                                                                                     an investigation under section 232 to determine the effects on national
                                                                                                     security of imports of processed critical minerals and their derivative prod-
                                                                                                     ucts.
                                                                                                        (b) In conducting the investigation described in subsection (a) of this
                                                                                                     section, the Secretary of Commerce shall assess the factors set forth in
                                                                                                     19 U.S.C. 1862(d), labeled ‘‘Domestic production for national defense; impact
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC1




                                                                                                     of foreign competition on economic welfare of domestic industries,’’ as
                                                                                                     well as other relevant factors, including:
                                                                                                        (i) identification of United States imports of all processed critical minerals
                                                                                                        and derivative products incorporating such processed critical minerals;
                                                                                                        (ii) the foreign sources by percent and volume of all processed critical
                                                                                                        mineral imports and derivative product imports, the specific types of


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:46 Apr 17, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00002   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\18APE1.SGM   18APE1


                                                                       Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 74 / Friday, April 18, 2025 / Presidential Documents                      16439

                                                                                                        risks that may be associated with each source by country, and those
                                                                                                        source countries deemed to be of significant risk;
                                                                                                        (iii) an analysis of the distortive effects of the predatory economic, pricing,
                                                                                                        and market manipulation strategies and practices used by countries that
                                                                                                        process critical minerals that are exported to the United States, including
                                                                                                        the distortive effects on domestic investment and the viability of United
                                                                                                        States production, as well as an assessment of how such strategies and
                                                                                                        practices permit such countries to maintain their control over the critical
                                                                                                        minerals processing sector and distort United States market prices for
                                                                                                        derivative products;
                                                                                                        (iv) an analysis of the demand for processed critical minerals by manufac-
                                                                                                        turers of derivative products in the United States and globally, including
                                                                                                        an assessment of the extent to which such manufacturers’ demand for
                                                                                                        processed critical minerals originates from countries identified under sub-
                                                                                                        sections (b)(ii) and (b)(iii) of this section;
                                                                                                        (v) a review and risk assessment of global supply chains for processed
                                                                                                        critical minerals and their derivative products;
                                                                                                        (vi) an analysis of the current and potential capabilities of the United
                                                                                                        States to process critical minerals and their derivative products; and
                                                                                                       (vii) the dollar value of the current level of imports of all processed
                                                                                                       critical minerals and derivative products by total value and country of
                                                                                                       export.
                                                                                                       (c) The Secretary of Commerce shall, consistent with applicable law, pro-
                                                                                                     ceed expeditiously in conducting the investigation as follows:
                                                                                                       (i) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce
                                                                                                       shall submit for internal review and comment a draft interim report to
                                                                                                       the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the United States
                                                                                                       Trade Representative, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy,
                                                                                                       and the Senior Counselor to the President for Trade and Manufacturing.
                                                                                                        (ii) Comments to the Secretary of Commerce from the officials identified
                                                                                                        in subsection (c)(i) of this section shall be provided within 15 days of
                                                                                                        submission of the draft interim report described in subsection (c)(i) of
                                                                                                        this section.
                                                                                                       (iii) The Secretary of Commerce shall submit a final report and rec-
                                                                                                       ommendations to the President within 180 days of the investigation’s
                                                                                                       commencement.
                                                                                                       (d) In considering whether to make recommendations for action or inaction
                                                                                                     pursuant to section 232(b) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1862(b)), the Secretary
                                                                                                     of Commerce shall consider:
                                                                                                       (i) the imposition of tariffs as well as other import restrictions and their
                                                                                                       appropriate levels;
                                                                                                        (ii) safeguards to avoid circumvention and any weakening of the section
                                                                                                        232 measures;
                                                                                                        (iii) policies to incentivize domestic production, processing, and recycling;
                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                       (iv) any additional measures that may be warranted to mitigate United
                                                                                                       States national security risks, as appropriate, under the President’s author-
                                                                                                       ity pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50
                                                                                                       U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
                                                                                                     Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed
                                                                                                     to impair or otherwise affect:
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC1




                                                                                                       (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
                                                                                                       or the head thereof; or
                                                                                                       (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
                                                                                                       relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
                                                                                                       (b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
                                                                                                     subject to the availability of appropriations.


                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:46 Apr 17, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\18APE1.SGM   18APE1


                                                 16440                 Federal Register / Vol. 90, No. 74 / Friday, April 18, 2025 / Presidential Documents

                                                                                                       (c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit,
                                                                                                     substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
                                                                                                     against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers,
                                                                                                     employees, or agents, or any other person.




                                                                                                     THE WHITE HOUSE,
                                                                                                     April 15, 2025.


                                                 [FR Doc. 2025–06836
                                                 Filed 4–17–25; 8:45 am]
                                                 Billing code 3395–F4–P
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with FR_PREZDOC1




                                                                                                                                                                                        Trump.EPS</GPH>




                                            VerDate Sep<11>2014   15:46 Apr 17, 2025   Jkt 265001   PO 00000   Frm 00004   Fmt 4790   Sfmt 4790   E:\FR\FM\18APE1.SGM   18APE1
